I am not heedless of you. I am simply a builder of a city and I am responsible for my people for a period of time."
"He is the son of my mother and the son of my grandmother."
Those who responded to the call of Allah and the Messenger after they had been harmed will have a great reward.
He heard the call and knew that his family was in the wood.
I am a trustworthy adviser of the people of the land, and I am afraid that there will be no one in the land to be killed."
And my husband called me a liar and said, "When we were among the same age and we used to stand before the Lord in the morning, we were not aware of this.
He created man.
On parchment unrolled.
On parchment unrolled.
When the heaven is cleft asunder,
She said, "Woe to me! Shall I bear a child when I am an old woman and my husband is an old man? This is indeed a strange thing!"
It is most hateful to Allah that you should say what you do not do.
Why have bracelets of gold not been given to him, and angels not accompanied him?"
And fear a Day when no soul will avail another soul at all, nor will compensation be accepted from it, nor will intercession benefit it, nor will they be helped.
The heart did not disregard what it saw.
Woe on that Day to those who reject the Truth!
The trusted recorder wrote in his book:
I am the truthful, the righteous father."
When I was killed, I forgot my home.
And there are other benefits for you in them, and you may satisfy any need that is in your breasts, and on them and on ships you are carried.
Indeed, you will know that I am worthy of attention.
God has fulfilled the vision He showed to His Messenger. You will enter the Sacred Mosque, if God wills, in security, with your heads shaved, and your hair cut short, in a state of security. He knows what you do not know, and has granted you a near victory.
The coming out will not be done.
But as a mercy from Us, and as an enjoyment for a while.
Even though I am averse to it.
And leave the wives your Lord has created for you? No, you are a transgressing people."
Whether We show you part of what We have promised them, or cause you to die, your duty is only to convey the message. Our reckoning is upon you.
Say, "If your fathers, your sons, your brothers, your wives, your tribe, what you have gained, merchandise you fear may be sold down, and dwellings you love are dearer to you than Allah, His Messenger, and striving in His cause, then wait until Allah brings His command. Allah does not guide the transgressing people."
Thereafter, in a few days, they helped themselves.
Await then, and enjoy your stay.
Those who do not believe in the Hereafter deserve the worst description. Allah is the Almighty, the Wise.
And when We bestow favor upon man, he turns away and withdraws aside; but when evil touches him, he despairs.
"Now," he said, "you have rebelled before and been one of the mischief-makers."
If you fear that you will not act justly towards orphans, marry such women as seem good to you, two, three, four; but if you fear that you will not act justly towards them, then only one, or what your right hands possess. This is more proper, so that you will not be unfair.
"How can you become a captive?"
And that when a calamity befell them because of what they had earned, they would say, "Our Lord, why did You not send us a messenger so we could have followed Your verses and been among the believers?"
Alif, Lam, Mim.
This is the finest story, which is always preceding, but it is a liar.
"I will be sent among the guards."
Alif, Lam, Meem.
Do you not know that Allah knows all that is in the heavens and the earth? Indeed, it is in a Book. Indeed, that is easy for Allah.
Thus are turned away those who disbelieve in the signs of Allah.
He made mention of it to me.
There is no sin in it.
On parchment unrolled.
How the cords are joined together,
And raising dust in it.
On parchment unrolled.
Indeed, I will shun it.
No! Indeed, yes!
He has already told you about the earlier event.
These people denied the signs of their Lord, disbelieved in His messengers, and followed the bidding of every obstinate tyrant.
It is He who initiates and repeats.
No! Indeed, he is not mad.
We made a covenant with Moses for forty nights, but you took to worshipping the calf after him, and you were wrongdoers.
He created the heavens and the earth with truth. Exalted is He above what they associate with Him.
What is the Crusher?
The sealing of the keys.
On parchment unrolled.
He frowned and turned away.
And choose from the Scrolls.
We have sent down the Book to you with the truth, confirming what was before it, and a guardian over it. So judge between them by what Allah has revealed, and do not follow their desires, desiring the truth that has come to you. To each of you We have given a law and a way. Had Allah willed, He would have made you one nation, but He wants to test you by what He has given you. So compete with each other in good deeds. To Allah is your return, all of you, and He will inform you about what you used to dispute.
Allah chose Adam, Noah, the family of Abraham, and the family of 'Imran over the worlds.
Therein the angels and the Spirit descend, by the leave of Allah, with every command.
Indeed, it is thanks.
So how is it that he sees?
And say, "My Lord, guide me wherever I come and bring me out wherever I go, and give me from Yourself authority to help me."
And if they decide upon divorce, then surely Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
And they say, "When will this promise occur, if you should be truthful?"
On parchment unrolled.
Joseph, the truthful one, tell us the meaning of seven fat cows being eaten by seven lean ones, and seven green spikes and seven others dried up, so that I may return to the people and they may understand.
If you fear treachery from any people, throw back their covenant to them. Allah does not like the treacherous.
I am a trustworthy messenger for you.
The remembrance of the child who was killed in the city, which the man from the left hand took.
He gives to the city and to the town thirty-nine per year, but only a few of it are spent.
And gives a little, then grudgingly?
Alif Lam Mim.
O you who believe! Save yourselves and your families from a Fire whose fuel is people and stones, over which are angels, stern and severe, who do not disobey what they are commanded, and do what they are commanded.
They said, "Have you come to make us worship only Allah and abandon what our ancestors worshipped? Then bring upon us what you threaten us with, if you are truthful."
On parchment unrolled.
What you give in interest to increase people's wealth does not increase with Allah. But what you give in charity, seeking Allah's pleasure, will be doubled.
Allah does not like that you should say what you do not do.
No! Is it you who want to create it?
It is not the meat of a sacrifice that reaches Allah, nor its blood, but it is your piety that reaches Him. Thus He has subjected them to you, that you may magnify Allah for guiding you. And give glad tidings to the doers of good.
The entire Universe is gathered together.
Allah knows well who are your enemies. Allah is sufficient as a Guardian and Helper.
There is no sign for you except that you will stay for a number of days.
On parchment unrolled.
He enjoined this upon his sons, and so did Jacob. He said, “O my sons, Allah has chosen this religion for you, so do not die except as Muslims.”
Fie upon you and upon what you worship besides Allah! Do you not understand?
He said, “You are granted respite.”
I would rather you bear my sin and your sin, and become among the inmates of the Fire. That is the recompense of the wrongdoers."
And it is He who created man from water, and gave him kindred of blood and marriage. Your Lord is the Powerful.
When those who disbelieve see you, they mock you, saying, "Is this the one who talks about your gods?" And they deny the remembrance of the Most Merciful.
O you who believe! Most of the scholars and monks wrongfully devour people's possessions and hinder people from the way of Allah. And those who treasure up gold and silver and do not spend it in the way of Allah, inform them of a painful punishment.
By oath of those who witness the Day of Judgment.
So eat of that over which Allah's name has been mentioned, if you believe in His signs.
And you are in the midst of night and day.
I have heard on the tongue that the number of calamity and wounds has increased. I do not know what to do, whether to begin or end it. Is there a place to start from? On this day there will be perdition and suffering for the nations.
If these had been gods, they would not have entered it, but they will remain in it forever.
A fountain there, called Salsabil.
And the increase of the population was not planned.
We were ranged in ranks.
So let me make you see with an eye of clearness.
The sight did not swerve, nor did it transgress.
Leave me alone, and I will return to you."
The sealing of the keys.
"Shall I go down to the City of Al-A'raf (another name of the city of Tubba')." (It will be said to him) "All the praises and thanks be to Allah, the Lord of all the worlds!"
Peace and blessings be upon you.
Ample parchment.
Allah has prepared for them a severe punishment. Indeed, it is evil that they do.
And guide them to the path of hell.
The cool shade.
We had sent warners among them.
The speech of the father is a mockery for the unbelievers when he is addressed.
He said, "Who despairs of the mercy of his Lord except those who are astray?"
And she will speak to him.
When you met, He made them appear few in your eyes, and made you appear few in their eyes, so that Allah might accomplish a matter already enacted. To Allah all matters return.
He raised its vault and made it proper.
He said, "I have no knowledge of what they did."
The piercing flame.
He bought a new phone for himself. When his new phone comes to him, he will be told, "This is what I was commanded".
Indeed, it is We who will be the better ones.
Until, when they see that which they are promised, then they will know who is weaker in helpers and fewer in number.
Praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of all the worlds.
This is for you, so taste it. And for the disbelievers is the punishment of the Fire.
I am a trustworthy messenger for you.
Hell, where they will burn, an evil resting place.
Theirs shall be a wide expanse of crystal, fair carpets, and rich carpets laden with gold.
And what We have revealed to you of the Book is the truth, confirming what came before it. Indeed, Allah is ever, with His servants, Acquainted and Seeing.
Proceed, then.
This is a wicked deed.
The chief of the Muslims who criticized the rule of Allah, said,
And corruption has appeared on land and sea because of what the hands of men have earned, that He may make them taste a part of what they have done, so that they may return.
He said, "Have you come to turn us out of our land with your magic, O Moses?"
On parchment unrolled.
No soul can die except by Allah's leave, at an appointed time. Whoever desires the reward of this world, We will give him of it, and whoever desires the reward of the Hereafter, We will give him of it. And We will reward the grateful.
They said, "O Shu'ayb, we do not understand much of what you say, and we see that you are weak among us. Were it not for your tribe, we would have stoned you. You are not strong against us."
Allah eases the sustenance for whomever He wills and restricts it for whomever He wills. They rejoice in the life of this world, but compared with the Hereafter, the life of this world is only a temporary enjoyment.
And in the scriptures of Abraham who fulfilled.
There are others who have acknowledged their sins and have mixed a righteous deed with another that was bad. Perhaps Allah will turn to them in forgiveness. Indeed Allah is all-forgiving, all-merciful.
O you who believe! Many of the scholars and monks wrongfully devour people's wealth and hinder people from the way of Allah. And those who accumulate gold and silver and do not spend it in the way of Allah, give them the good news of a painful punishment.
As a favor from Us. Thus do We reward him who gives thanks.
There every soul shall prove its past deeds, and they shall be returned to Allah, their true Lord, and what they used to invent will forsake them.
I am not a manager of security. I am only a warner."
The charming, eloquent son of Saba'i was mentioned in the Book of his deeds.
The heavens are of fine shade and all kinds of trees are of fine shade.
What is it that you do?
He wants to meet you.
Thus does Allah seal up the hearts of those who do not know.
And raise dust from it,
The ships run away from the wells of Aykah.
"And my gods,
And if he is of the rejecters, the erring,
And that He is the Lord of Sirius?
And (there are) others who have confessed their sins, they have mixed a righteous deed with another that was bad. Perhaps Allah will turn to them in forgiveness. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.
And when they repented and saw that they had gone astray, they said, "If our Lord does not have mercy on us and forgive us, we will surely be among the lost."
Ha. Mim.
Say, "Have you considered those you invoke besides Allah? Show me what they have created of the earth. Do they have a share in the heavens? Bring me a scripture before this or some vestige of knowledge, if you are truthful."
So I swear by the Lord of the Easts and the Wests that We are surely able
Has the story of Moses reached you?
As for those who believe and do good deeds, for them is forgiveness and a generous provision.
He said, "Yes, and you will be among those near to me."
None knows what the future holds except those who like it.
And cut off the hands of the thief, whether male or female, as a punishment from Allah. Indeed Allah is all-mighty, all-wise.
If these had been gods, they would not have entered it, but they will remain in it forever.
No! It is your return.
O you who believe! Do not follow the footsteps of the devil, and whoever follows the footsteps of the devil, then surely he commands to indecency and evil. Were it not for Allah’s munificence and His mercy, not one of you would ever have been pure, but Allah purifies whomever He wishes, and Allah is all-hearing, all-knowing.
Therein is a message of mercy, surely.
And they swore by Allah with their solemn oaths that if a warner came to them, they would be more guided than any other people. But when a warner came to them, it did not increase them except in aversion.
It is not for the people of Madinah and the Arabs of the desert to stay behind the Messenger of Allah and not care for themselves. It is not for them to suffer thirst, nor fatigue, nor hunger in the way of Allah, nor to tread any ground that angers the disbelievers, nor to gain any victory over an enemy but it is recorded to their credit as a righteous deed. Indeed, Allah does not waste the reward of the righteous.
The inevitable is inevitable.
And they strike the similitude of the deep ravines as if they were coral-stone.
And choose from the Scrolls.
The fulfilment of a predetermined dream.
Or are you a guilty nation?
Allah will punish the hypocrites, both men and women, and the polytheists, both men and women, and Allah will turn to the believing women, and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
These are the prophets upon whom Allah bestowed favor from the descendants of Adam, and from those whom We carried with Noah, and from the descendants of Abraham and Israel, and from those whom We guided and chose. When the verses of the Most Gracious were recited to them, they fell down prostrating and weeping.
And if the truth had followed their desires, the heavens and the earth and whoever is in them would have been ruined. Nay, We have brought them their reminder, but they turn away from their reminder.
The alternation of night and day.
Theirs shall be Gardens of Eden underneath which rivers flow; they shall be adorned therein with bracelets of gold, and they shall wear green garments of fine silk and heavy brocade, reclining therein on raised thrones. How excellent is the reward, and how excellent is the resting place!
On parchment unrolled.
On parchment unrolled.
And We placed high mountains as anchors in it, and We gave you sweet water to drink.
A reminder for the people.
So go forth, and let him be your helper, but how will he come to you?"
O People of the Scripture! Why dispute about Abraham? The Torah and the Gospel were not revealed until after him. Do you not understand?
Except his wife. We have decreed that she will be of those who remain behind.
Because he is a possessor of wealth and children.
Say, "Whoever is in error - the Most Merciful extends his respite until, when they see what they were threatened with, either the punishment or the Hour, then they will know who is worse in position and weaker in forces."
The marriage of the two daughters brings to light their ties of relationship.
Falsehood cannot approach it from before it or from behind it. It is a revelation from the Wise, the Praiseworthy.
You will die, and they will die.
And the companions of the tracks, after the defeat of the enemy, sent for relief, and they wrote, "We are sorry for the defeat of the enemy."
Those who believe and do good deeds will have Gardens beneath which rivers flow. That is the great success.
"Set out with My servants by night, for you will be pursued."
Every one of them agreed to drown the others.
And when they see a sign, they mock at it.
A generous friend
The hypocrites fear lest a surah should be revealed about them, revealing what is in their hearts. Say, "Go on mocking. Indeed, Allah will reveal what you fear."
I do not absolve myself of blame. The soul is prone to evil except those on whom my Lord has mercy. Indeed, my Lord is Forgiving and Merciful."
Alif Lam Mim.
They were able to strike a missile, but they were not guided.
Indeed, if you had wished, you would have come to know sooner.
The hunting of the she-camels in the desert of Israel.
I have asked you to join the army, though I do not know. Would that there had been a good place for you to go to."
Then on the Day of Resurrection He will disgrace them and will say, “Where are My partners for whose sake you used to dispute?” Those who have been given knowledge will say, “This Day disgrace and evil are upon the disbelievers.”
Have they taken protectors besides Him? But He is the protector of all, and He revives the dead, and He has power over all things.
Or do you seek after someone?
And you will not be recompensed except for what you used to do.
Women and men,
There is no doubt that the Quran was not properly prepared.
He has counted them and numbered them exactly.
What, are we being faced with one another?"
Muhammad is a man of faith and a protector.
And the travellers who were in the enemy's embassy were returned safely to their places of rest.
Enter My Paradise.
They are niggardly towards you. When fear comes, you will see them looking at you, their eyes rolling like someone fainting at death. But when the fear is gone, they smite you with sharp tongues, niggardly of the good things. These have not believed, so Allah has made their deeds devoid of all virtue. That is easy for Allah.
And how can you be patient over what you do not know?
Evil is the description of those who do not believe in the Hereafter. Allah's is the loftiest description. He is the All-mighty, the All-wise.
It gives food in the night,
And when Allah will say, 'O Jesus son of Mary, remember My favor upon you and upon your mother, and how I strengthened you with the holy spirit, so that you spoke to the people in the cradle and in maturity, and how I taught you the Book, the Wisdom, the Torah, and the Gospel, and how you fashioned from clay the shape of a bird by My leave, and you breathed into it, and it became a bird by My leave, and you healed the blind and the leper by My leave, and you brought forth the dead by My leave. And recall when I delivered you to the Children of Israel with clear proofs, and those who disbelieved among them said, "This is nothing but sorcery."
"Why has my Lord forgiven me and made me one of the honoured ones?"
Praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of all the worlds.
And this continued to be their cry until We made them cut off and extinguished.
Yes indeed, why not?
"Yes, indeed, it will be a Day of Resurrection!"
No! Indeed, yes!
Then We revealed to you, [O Muhammad], saying, "Follow the religion of Abraham, inclining toward truth, and he was not of the polytheists."
On the Day when mankind will stand before the Lord of all the worlds?
Say, "My Lord, if You should bring upon them what they are threatened with,
This is what the magicians say.
That they may witness the benefits for them, and mention the name of Allah on appointed days over the cattle He has provided them, and eat and feed the needy and the destitute.
Or that He will not seize them when they are apprehensive of it? Indeed, your Lord is Kind and Merciful.
And I am going to make you taste the punishment of the morning.
And lower your wing to Him and accept the truth.
"Remain in the company of Ollie."
And those who avoid vain talk.
That is because Allah causes the night to enter into the day and causes the day to enter into the night, and because Allah is Hearing, Seeing.
Or who is it that will provide for you if He withholds His provision? Yet they persist in rebellion and aversion.
You have your religion, and I have my religion."
The news? You had no authority except through knowledge, and they were strong against you.
Then, verily, their return is to Hell.
Or a treasure should have been sent down to him, or he should have had a garden from which to eat." And the wrongdoers say, "You follow only a man affected by magic."
They try to deceive Allah and those who believe, but they only deceive themselves, and they are not aware.
We sought to reach him by means of the remotest part of his brain, but he did not.
For the restoration of what you have destroyed.
The officials of the city said, "The people of the city will not be affected by the destitution."
Whoever turns his back and turns his back.
Whoever brings a good deed will receive ten times its like, and they will not be wronged.
Those who take the disbelievers for their allies instead of the believers seek honour from them. But all honour belongs to Allah alone.
The refuge of those who fear Allah.
Those who respond to their Lord will have the best. But those who do not respond to Him, if they had all that is in the earth, and the like of it with it, they would offer it for ransom. Those will have the worst reckoning, and their abode will be hell, and it is an evil resting place.
We have granted you a clear victory.
Said Firaun, “You accepted faith in me before I permitted you! This is a conspiracy you have plotted in the city, in order to expel its people from it; so you will soon know.”
Then I will remember.
A report of the news.
On parchment unrolled.
On parchment unrolled.
This is the story of his choosing. In fact, it is one of many.
But he thinks that he is an ensample.
When those who disbelieve had set up in their hearts zealotry, the zealotry of pagan ignorance, Allah sent down His composure upon His Messenger and upon the believers, and made them establish the word of righteousness, for they were worthy of it and deserved it, and Allah has knowledge of all things.
And when the truth came to them from Us, they said, "Why was he not given the like of what was given to Moses?" Did they not disbelieve in what was given to Moses before? They said, "They are both magic supporting one another," and said, "We disbelieve in both of them."
And those who, when they measure or weigh for others, give less.
Ya Sin.
Your God is One God. Those who do not believe in the Hereafter, their hearts disbelieve, and they are arrogant.
O you who believe! Whoever among you turns back from his religion, then Allah will bring a people whom He loves and who love Him, humble towards the believers, stern towards the disbelievers, striving hard in the way of Allah and not fearing the blame of any blamer. That is Allah’s munificence, which He grants to whomever He wishes, and Allah is all-bounteous, all-knowing.
Then their return will be to Hell.
The Arabs argue in the matter of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue.
The Crusher.
Like those before them, they tasted the evil result of their conduct, and they will have a painful punishment.
Do they not think that they will be resurrected
Indeed, we are the ones who remained behind.
The sealing of the keys.
That is because Allah causes the night to enter into the day and causes the day to enter into the night, and because Allah is Hearing, Seeing.
If We let man taste mercy from Us, and then withdraw it from him, he becomes despairing and ungrateful.
And on the day when We will bring a witness from every nation, then those who disbelieve will not be permitted, nor will they be excused.
And He gathers together males and females and causes whomever He wills to be barren. Indeed, He is the Knowing, the Competent.
And Allah knows what you conceal and what you reveal.
And He is the Forgiving, the Loving,
By the heaven and by the nightly comer!
Every soul is hostage to what it has earned.
And what will explain to you what the ascent is?
Glory be to Him! High be He exalted above what they say!
None is there that is not guarded.
The companions of Paradise will call out to the companions of the Fire, "We have found what our Lord promised us to be true. Have you found what your Lord promised to be true?" They will reply, "Yes." Then a crier will cry out among them, "The curse of God be upon the wrongdoers."
And the prophet said to them, "Allah has raised Saul to be king over you." They said, "How can he have kingship over us when we are more worthy of kingship than he, and he has no wealth?" He said, "Allah has chosen him over you, and has increased him abundantly in knowledge and stature." And Allah grants sovereignty to whom He wills. And Allah is All-Embracing, All-Knowing.
O you who believe! When you contract a debt for a specified term, write it down. And let a scribe write it down between you with justice, and let no scribe refuse to write as Allah has taught him. So let him write, and let the debtor dictate, and let him fear Allah, his Lord, and not diminish anything of it. But if the debtor is a fool, or weak, or unable himself to dictate, then let his guardian dictate with justice. And call to witness two witnesses from among your men. But if two men are not available, then a man and two women from those whom you approve of as witnesses, so that if one of the two errs the other can remind her. And the witnesses must not refuse when they are summoned. And do not be remiss in writing it, whether it be small or large, with the intent of writing it down with justice. That is more equitable in Allah's sight, and more suitable for testimony, and more suitable for preventing doubts amongst yourselves. And let not the scribes refuse to write it down, whether it be small or large
A. L. R.
All this is evil and odious to your Lord.
You thought that he would never die. In fact, he will never die.
By no means!
He was dead.
And you will become three classes.
Have they not travelled through the land and seen what was the end of those before them? They were stronger than themselves in might and in the land, but Allah seized them for their sins, and they had no protector against Allah.
This is an exhortation for me.
Their eyes will be humbled and disgrace will cover them. Such is the Day which they were promised.
They are those from whom We accept the best of what they do and overlook their misdeeds. They will be among the inhabitants of Paradise, a true promise which they had been given.
And that He is the Lord of Sirius?
The Great Catastrophe!
They are only 15 of the believers, and they are only 83 of the listeners. The two parties differ in the matter of their wives, but the believers were safe from infidelity. But the infidels were attacked in the land, in the city, in the sea, and in the prison.
And he said to his servants, "Put their merchandise into their saddlebags, perhaps they will recognize it when they return to their people, perhaps they will come back."
Save him who transgresseth and thereafter changeth evil for good, then verily I am Forgiving, Merciful.
The nearest people to Abraham are those who followed him, and this Prophet and those who believe in him. Allah is the guardian of the believers.
Say, "Who is the Lord of the heavens and the earth?" Say, "Allah." Say, "Do you then take protectors other than Him, who have no power to benefit or harm themselves?" Say, "Are the blind and the seeing equal? Are darkness and light equal? What, have they set up with Allah partners who created like His creation, so that the creation seemed to them confused?" Say, "Allah is the Creator of all things. He is the One, the Almighty."
And this is a blessed Book which We have revealed confirming what came before it, and that you may warn the chiefs of the cities and those around them. Those who believe in the Hereafter believe in it, and they are watchful of their prayers.
"I am only a fool," he said. "You are only a fool."
And if you do not bring them a miracle, they will say, "Why do you not make one?" Say, "I only follow what is revealed to me from my Lord." This is a clear proof from your Lord and a guidance and mercy for the believers.
The Originator of the heavens and the earth. How can He have a son when He has no consort? He created everything and He has knowledge of all things.
Create a domain from an XML record.
And arrange their affairs in a proper manner.
And whosoever is on earth, so that it may deliver him.
And they will be in the highest place.
As for those who take protectors besides Him, Allah watches over them, and you are not a guardian over them.
And remind. Indeed, the reminder benefits the believers.
When Allah alone is mentioned, the hearts of those who do not believe in the Hereafter shrink, but when those other than Him are mentioned, they rejoice.
I will do it for my people; it is a grievous deed.
Thus have We caused it to enter into the hearts of the guilty.
And you will be able to speak to him by the lips.
He said, "Put me over the storehouses of the land. I am a skilled custodian."
Go down, both of you, from your paths!
Doth not man see that We created him from a drop of seed? Yet lo! he is an open opponent.
And glorify Him morning and evening.
Safa and Marwah are among the rites of Allah. So there is no sin upon him who performs the Hajj or the Umrah to visit them. And whoever does good of his own accord, then surely Allah is appreciative, all-knowing.
He created man.
When they are cast into it, they will hear its roaring while it boils.
She said, "I seek refuge in God from you, if you fear Him."
No! Indeed, yes!
O believers, take your precautions, then go forth in companies, or go forth all together.
"How my Lord has forgiven me and placed me among the honored."
And from the evil of the darkness when it comes,
The ships are carried by the Mighty One.
And as for him who is given his book behind his back,
Say, "Do you dispute with us about Allah, while He is our Lord and your Lord? For us are our deeds, and for you are your deeds. We are sincere to Him."
So the earthquake seized them, and they lay lifeless prostrate in their homes.
And of His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the difference of your languages and colors. Surely, in that are signs for those who understand.
Say, "Nothing will happen to us except what Allah has decreed for us. He is our protector." And upon Allah let the believers rely.
He causes the night to enter into the day and causes the day to enter into the night, and He knows what the hearts contain.
And if you wonder, then wondrous is their saying, "When we are dust, will we be [recreated] in a new creation?" They are those who disbelieved in their Lord, and they will have carcans around their necks. They are the companions of the Fire, and they will abide therein eternally.
By the heaven and the night-star!
No! When the earth is crushed to bits,
On parchment unrolled.
The people of Thamud denied the truth about the birth of Mary. So they destroyed her.
He is the Knower of the unseen and the seen, the Great, the Most High.
Do not drive away those who call upon their Lord morning and evening, seeking His pleasure. You are not accountable for them in any way, nor are they accountable for you in any way. If you drive them away, you will become one of the wrongdoers.
He said, "God forbid that we should seize anyone except him with whom we found our property, for then we would be wrongdoers."
Were it not for the sudden onslaught, We would not have been among the losers.
[It will be] the Sinai and the pearl.
If We willed, We would make it salt. Why then do you not give thanks?
On parchment unrolled.
He has forbidden you only carrion, blood, the flesh of swine, and that which has been dedicated to other than Allah. But whoever is forced by necessity, not desiring nor exceeding the limit, there is no sin upon him. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.
They disbelieved in it before, and they used to seek the unseen from a place far away.
Not equal are the inmates of the Fire and the inhabitants of paradise. The inhabitants of paradise are the winners.
He hears the verses of Allah recited to him, yet persists in his disbelief as if he had not heard them. So give him the glad tidings of a painful punishment.
They were given the glad news of the birth of their son.
The earthquake in the city of Aykah,
They ask you what they should give. Say, "Whatever good you give is for your parents, relatives, orphans, the needy, and the traveler. And whatever good you do - indeed, Allah is Knowing of it."
I know that there is no bad news in it, but it is an evil news for the people of the land.
So proclaim what you are commanded, and turn away from the polytheists.
upon your heart, so that you may warn.
And We see it nigh.
We have given them the example of the ancients.
The name of action.
Yes indeed, the Qur'an,
(It is) the announcement of the coming of the constellation of the angels.
My purpose was to make him be in a valley, and whoever is in a valley is unfortunate.
And in two thousand years, O dear Prophet (Mohammed – peace and blessings be upon him), the group initiated the creation of a book for the parents, the name of it being “Carry your sons with joy”, and the knowledgeable persons were aided with it; I did not test it, except that the knowledgeable persons used to ask the parents, and they used to find a way.
The chief of the demons said, adding,
The sealing of the keys.
Verily We! We are the Bestower of mercy.
When a hundred of the people of Aykah were killed, and they were more than a thousand of the jinn.
Does he possess knowledge of the unseen so that he sees?
And We sent against them flocks of birds,
By no means!
On parchment unrolled.
And you will see the deafening wind.
Among the Jews are those who distort words from their meanings and say, "We hear and we disobey," and "Look upon us," twisting their tongues to defy the truth. If they had said, "We hear and we obey," and "Look upon us," it would have been better for them and more upright. But Allah has cursed them for their disbelief, so they do not believe except a few.
Allah has fulfilled the vision of His Messenger in truth. You will enter the Sacred Mosque, if Allah wills, in security, with your heads shaved and hair cut short, without fear. He knew what you did not know, and has granted you a victory beforehand.
Who is he that will lend Allah a goodly loan so He will multiply it for him and he will have a great reward.
Allah has made the Ka'bah, the Sacred House, a place of security for mankind, and the Sacred Months, the offerings, and the garlands. That is so that you may know that Allah knows what is in the heavens and what is in the earth, and that Allah has knowledge of all things.
Give glad tidings to the hypocrites that for them is a painful punishment.
That they may witness benefits for themselves, and mention the name of Allah on the appointed days over the cattle He has provided them. So eat from them and feed the needy and the poor.
And each one of them strove hard to achieve the end that they desired.
Dressed in fine silk and in rich brocade, facing one another.
I swear by the messenger who says, "My Lord, these people do not believe."
Allah does not disdain to give an example of a gnat or something above it. Those who believe know that it is the truth from their Lord. But those who disbelieve say, "What does Allah mean by this example?" He misleads many and guides many, but He misleads only the transgressors.
They ask you about the phases of the moon. Say, "They are timekeeping signs for people and the pilgrimage." It is not righteousness to enter the houses from the back, but righteousness is to fear God. So enter houses through their doors and fear God, so that you may be successful.
The doctor of law,
We shall supply them with MR and SQ, and We shall be hidden from them.
So fear Allah and obey me.
Indeed, he is one of the vilest.
"Have I brought it together?"
You are more fearful in their hearts than Allah. That is because they do not understand.
Thus is the poetry.
Do you not know that Allah knows all that is in the heavens and the earth? Indeed, it is in a Book. Indeed, that is easy for Allah.
And We have kept a record of your deeds, so give us permission.
Indeed, the religion with Allah is Islam. Those who were given the Scripture differed only after knowledge came to them, out of envy in their hearts. And whoever disbelieves in the verses of Allah, then surely, Allah is swift in reckoning.
Glory be to the Lord of the heavens and the earth, the Lord of the Throne, above what they attribute to Him!
No! I used to live in the city.
And how many a city did give respite while it was wrongdoing, then I seized it, and to Me is the destination.
I am not afraid, and I shall not be afraid.
The woman who defended the rights of the immigrants, was released from the prison.
O you who believe! Whoever of you turns back from his religion, Allah will bring a people whom He loves and who love Him, humble towards the believers, stern towards the disbelievers, striving hard in Allah's cause, and fearing not the blame of any blamer. That is Allah's bounty; He gives it to whom He wills. Allah is Bountiful, Knowing.
And your Lord will come with angels ranged in ranks.
I am surely dumb, but they know.
It is not a thing to be mindful of.
But as for the prisoners, I think they have no strength, and they do not believe."
When Our revelations were recited to you, you turned back on your heels.
O you who believe! Retribution is prescribed for you for the slain, the free for the free, the slave for the slave, and the female for the female. But if the slain is forgiven by the brother of the slain, then compensation should be made to him in an acceptable manner and payment should be made to him in an acceptable manner. This is an alleviation from your Lord and a mercy. Whoever transgresses after this will have a painful punishment.
Alif, Lam, Ra.
He has control over all things.
When they became afraid of Our punishment, they started to flee from it.
The sealed cups of crystal, which are sealed with a strong seal.
Indeed Safa and Marwah are among the symbols of Allah. So whoever makes hajj to the House, or performs the 'umrah, there is no sin upon him to circuit between them. And whoever volunteers good, then surely Allah is appreciative, aware.
So celebrate the praise of your Lord and prostrate yourselves before Him.
He has begotten a beautiful son.
They ask you about the Hour, "When will be its arrival?"
And the earth, how it was spread out?
They will have fruits and whatever they call for.
Now you have become a daughter.
Is it you who cause it to grow, or are We the Grower?
And We gave them the Clear Book.
Until, when they see that which they are promised, then they will know who is weaker in helpers and fewer in numbers.
Say, "The first and the last.
They say, "On the Day of Judgment, the people of the trench will say,
Then on the Day of Resurrection He will disgrace them and say, “Where are My partners for whose sake you used to dispute?” Those who were given knowledge will say, “This Day disgrace and evil are upon the disbelievers.”
And when it is said to them, "Believe as men have believed," they say, "Shall we believe as fools have believed?" Unquestionably, they are the fools, but they do not know.
Our Lord, You know all that we conceal and all that we reveal. Nothing on the earth or in the heaven is hidden from Allah.
The people of the whole world remembered the people of the Sacred Mosque when they were killed in a month's time, and they asked forgiveness for the wrong-doers' family, and they set up the stars, and they asked the king to do a terrible deed.
Do they not see that We drive the water to the barren land and bring forth crops from it whereof their cattle and they themselves eat? Will they not then see?
Fight them until there is no more persecution and the religion of Allah is established. But if they cease, then there is no hostility except against the unjust.
This is nothing but the word of a human."
Or that He will not seize them when they fear the punishment? Indeed, your Lord is Kind and Merciful.
And among those We have created is a group that guides by the truth and establishes justice thereby.
And whoever patiently endures and forgives, indeed, that is of the patiently enduring things.
On parchment unrolled.
So remind, for reminder benefits.
Peace be upon the messengers.
Ya Seen.
What, do they lie against him?
The warnings also came to the people of Pharaoh.
And it is forbidden for a town which We have destroyed that they return not unto Us.
And He will forgive you, and you will revert.
This is the tradition of Allah with those who have gone before, and you will not find any change in the tradition of Allah.
On parchment unrolled.
Do not move your tongue with it to hasten it.
I know that.
Pardoning for us.
They revolved from the east to the west.
He said, "Son of my mother, do not seize me by my beard or my head. I feared that you would say, 'You have caused a division among the Children of Israel, and did not observe my word.' "
And corruption has appeared on land and sea because of what the hands of men have earned, so that He may make them taste a part of what they have done, so that they may return.
It is not for any human that Allah should speak to him except by revelation or from behind a veil, or by sending a messenger and revealing by His permission. He is the High, the Wise.
In a tremendous earthquake,
Allah will admit those who believe and do righteous deeds into Gardens beneath which rivers flow. As for those who disbelieve, they enjoy themselves and eat as cattle eat, and their abode is Hell.
And why do they criticize the camel in the second year? That is because they are more obstinate in obstinate criticism.
So that you may remember.
Then, on that Day, you will be questioned about the bounties of God.
On parchment unrolled.
I speak the language of war, and I speak the language of one who is honorable.
Do you not know that I am sitting right here, O 'Ala' (Joseph)?
Ha, Meem.
It is a secure repository.
I am quit of you and of what you worship besides Allah. Do you not understand?"
A reward for what they used to do.
Why should he put his trust in them when they have already attacked him?
And it will burst with fury. Every time a host will be cast therein, its keepers will ask them, "Did no warner come to you?"
It is not lawful for the parents to bring their children to their relatives.
And how can you be patient over what you do not know?
And they say, "Do not believe except those who follow your religion." Say, "Indeed, the [true] guidance is the guidance of Allah, and His religion, that someone should be given what you were given, or that they should have against you an argument before your Lord." Say, "Indeed, bounty is in Allah's hand; He gives it to whom He wills. Indeed, He is the All-embracing, the All-knowing."
The parents of the son of the Prophet.
When the minister of finance, Isaac, denied the truth and turned away from it.
This is indeed an unfair division.
Then thereafter there shall come a year wherein the people shall have rain and wherein they shall press.
So we turn away.
And of Abraham, who fulfilled his word?
He is the despairing one.
The slanderer, the backbiter,
"Detain them, all of them, with the Wise One."
Do not exalt yourselves before Allah. I have come to you with clear authority.
And other torments of similar kind.
Then if he is of those brought near to Allah,
It is He who created man from water, then He gave him kindred of blood and marriage. Your Lord has power over all things.
What! Do you say that the angels will kill him while they are with us?
We would have invented a lie against Allah if we returned to your religion after He has saved us from it. It is not for us to return to it except as Allah wills. Our Lord comprehends all things in knowledge. In Allah we have put our trust. Our Lord, judge between us and our people in truth. You are the best of judges."
Lo! verily Allah's is whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth. Lo! verily Allah's promise is true, but most of them know not.
And they say, "There is nothing but our life of this world, and we will not be resurrected."
And turn to Him repentant, and fear Him, and establish prayer, and do not be of the polytheists.
They will all be gathered together for the appointment of a well-known Day.
In the last month of the summer and the winter.
On parchment unrolled.
Whoever enters the Great Fire.
All that is in the heavens and the earth glorifies Allah. He is the Almighty, the Wise.
O you wrapped up in your mantle!
And when Moses came to Our appointment, and his Lord spoke to him, he said, "My Lord, show me Yourself so that I may look at You." He said, "You will never see Me, but look at the mountain; if it remains in its place, then you will see Me." But when his Lord manifested Himself to the mountain, He turned it into dust, and Moses fell down unconscious. And when he recovered, he said, "Exalted are You! I repent to You, and I am the first of the believers."
This Book has been revealed to you, so let there be no heaviness in your heart about it, so that you may warn with it, and as a reminder for the believers.
Or do they say, "He has invented a lie about Allah"? But if Allah willed, He could seal up your heart. And Allah wipes out falsehood and establishes the truth by His Words. Indeed, He is Knowing of that within the breasts.
Those who disbelieve spend their wealth to hinder people from the way of Allah. They will spend it, then it will become a source of regret for them, then they will be overcome. And those who disbelieve will be gathered together to Hell.
So let man consider from what he was created.
The Restoration.
And the Prophet's saying, "My Lord, they do not believe."
And we were not unjust.
"What is the matter with him," he said, "that he should not listen to me?"
Allah does not shy away from making a parable of a gnat or something less than it. Those who believe know that it is the truth from their Lord. But those who disbelieve say, "What does Allah mean by such parables?" He misleads many by them, and He guides many by them. But He misleads only the transgressors.
The enemies of the faithful wish to destroy the faithful, and We will not do so.
And I, too, am going to die.
The symbols (of Allah's Glory).
Their appointed time will be until late at night.
I only wish to apologize, and I am a new arrival here."
Allah made it only as good news for you, and to reassure your hearts. Victory comes only from Allah, the Almighty, the Wise.
We are not afraid.
The sealing of the keys.
And that they may know that the remembrance of it is good when they spend.
Those who change their faces.
And they did not stop until the leaders of the faithful asked for security, so they killed their own people.
And they said, "Better to be false than to be true, and better to be destroyed."
"Yes indeed," I answered, after they had been defeated.
The finest sealed wool.
The soon-appearing,
I did indeed make a mistake in it.
My nobles, you are scornful.
Or do they have partners? Then let them produce their partners, if they are truthful.
In the Muslims.
Whoever obeys Allah and the Messenger will be among those whom Allah has blessed, including the prophets, the truthful, the martyrs, and the righteous. What excellent companions these are!
Before many years.
He will be within it, and it will become manifest.
Among those We have created there is a party who guide by the truth and by it judge.
Then We pardoned you after that, so that you may be grateful.
Do you think that you will be destroyed by the assembly of the jinn?
Our Lord, make us submissive to You, and make from our descendants a nation submissive to You, and show us our rites, and forgive us. You are the Forgiving, the Merciful.
Their account is only with my Lord, if you could understand.
Indeed, they are for the sheep with large hoofs.
The sealing of the keys.
And those who give zakah.
And made them virgins,
"I have gone away from you.
"You are a resident of this city.
Falcoun is in the midst of the mountain.
"Wherever you are, I have come to you with determination.
Indeed, you and what you worship
On parchment unrolled.
On the Day when a man will flee from his brother,
We are here to commemorate the Day of Judgment.
Indeed, you will have no power over My servants except those who have gone astray in your way.
The hypocrites try to deceive Allah, but He is deceiving them. When they stand up to prayer, they stand up lazily, showing off to the people, and remembering Allah only a little.
He said, "My Lord, help me against the corrupting people."
And hold fast to Allah's rope, all of you, and do not be divided among yourselves, and remember Allah's blessing upon you when you were enemies and He joined your hearts together, and you became brothers by His blessing, and you were on the verge of falling on the pit of the Fire, and He saved you from it. Thus Allah makes His signs clear to you, so that you may be guided.
They will speak to each other about their worldly affairs.
Woe to the people of the trench,
There is no blame on the blind, nor on the lame, nor on the sick; and whoever obeys Allah and His Noble Messenger, He will admit him into Gardens beneath which rivers flow; and whoever turns back, He will punish him with a painful punishment.
Have He taken daughters out of what He has created, and chosen you for sons?
"Peace," will be the greeting from a Merciful Lord.
I know from the people of the city that they do not like women's decisions, and they act against them.
And you will see the angels surrounding the Throne, glorifying their Lord with praise. And it will be judged between them with justice, and it will be said, "Praise to Allah, the Lord of all the worlds."
And arrange their affairs in a proper manner.
The cool shade,
Then he went back to his family, full of pride.
The people of the city called out for the murder of two believing men, when they were attacked.
When your Lord said to the angels, "I am creating a human being from clay.
And the earth and the mountains will be crushed with a single crush.
Your nation is not like the nation of old.
The fools among the people will say, "What has turned them from their qiblah which they had?" Say, "To Allah belong the East and the West. He guides whom He wills to the right path."
Hood for me!
He will say, "Such were Our signs that came to you, but you forgot them. So today you will be forgotten."
So fear Allah and obey me.
And We have provided sustenance for you and for those whom you do not provide.
A messenger from Allah recites the purified pages.
Then on the Day of Resurrection He will disgrace them and will say, "Where are My partners for whose sake you used to dispute?" Those who have been given knowledge will say, "Degradation today and evil are upon the disbelievers."
And those who disbelieve say, "We will never believe in this Qur'an nor in what was before it." If you could but see when the wrongdoers will be made to stand before their Lord, blaming one another! Those who were despised will say to those who were arrogant, "If it were not for you, we would have been believers."
Are they waiting for Allah to come to them in the shadows of clouds with the angels, and the matter will be decided? And to Allah return all matters.
I do not know.
Then he frowned and scowled,
God is too exalted to be as they describe Him.
Call me on that number. This is indeed a deceitful thing."
By no means!
And those of you who die and leave wives behind, they should make a bequest for their wives for a year without turning them out; but if they leave, then there is no blame on you for what they do with themselves reputably; and Allah is Mighty, Wise.
When the most wretched of them rose up.
It is not for you to decide whether He turns to them or punishes them, for they are wrongdoers.
O Children of Israel! Remember the favours We bestowed upon you, and made you excel the nations.
So the earthquake seized them, and morning found them in their habitation fallen prostrate.
How many an angel there is in the heavens whose intercession avails nothing until Allah gives permission to whomever He wishes and approves.
Say, "Yes, and you will be disgraced."
No! Indeed, yes!
He said, “Woe to you! Do not fabricate a lie against Allah, or He will destroy you with some punishment, and whoever fabricates lies will be ruined.”
As a consequence, the people will be grieved on the Day of Resurrection.
The new name.
"Perhaps I may benefit from it."
This is a reminder, so whoever wills, let him take a path to his Lord.
Ya Sin.
The sealing of the keys.
Alif, Lam, Mim.
And nothing prevented that their contributions should be accepted from them except that they disbelieved in Allah and His Noble Messenger, and they come to the prayer lazily, and they spend unwillingly.
"What is the matter with him," he said, "that he should not listen to me?"
This is nothing but the word of a mortal."
Many of the people wonder at the bestowal or the bestowal of God.
And We helped him against the people who denied Our signs. Indeed, they were a people of evil, so We drowned them all.
She used to say, "In the morning."
And in the mouth of the pit, by the distance.
He said, "O my people, I fear for you the like of what has befallen the nations.
On that Day, a man will flee from his brother,
The fools among the people will say, "What has turned them away from their qiblah which they used to face?" Say, "To Allah belong the East and the West. He guides whom He wills to a straight path."
No! I say it with a noble saying.
Some of the human beings tried to seek refuge with the jinn, but they increased them in rebellion.
He did not speak excessively.
Allah, to whom belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. He gives life and causes death, and you have no protector or helper besides Allah.
We have lost the way.
And he is not a Jew.
On parchment unrolled.
“My Lord, make me establisher of prayer, and my descendants. Our Lord, accept my supplication.”
And the mountains, how they are fixed?
When those who disbelieved had aroused a fury in their hearts, the fury of ignorance, Allah sent His tranquillity down to His Messenger and to the believers, and made them establish the word of righteousness, and they were worthy of it, and Allah has knowledge of all things.
He has made their journey smooth for them, both in winter and summer.
On parchment unrolled.
All those who believe in the Oneness of Allah and follow the straight path.
On parchment unrolled.
Ha Mim.
"None of the ships has been left behind, nor has any of the enemy entered the ship."
They are those nearest to Allah.
Among the people there are those who think that it is the truth, and regard it as the like of it. But it is more difficult to distinguish the truth from falsehood. They criticize the use of the innocent.
Not easy for the disbelievers.
What is with you will pass away, but what is with Allah will endure. And We will surely give those who patiently endured their reward according to the best of what they used to do.
Do you want to know where he is now?"
Those who sell the life of this world for the Hereafter should fight in the way of Allah. Whoever fights in the way of Allah, whether he is killed or is victorious, We shall give him a great reward.
Indeed, it is the accursed man.
And compelled them to be patient in their winter and summer journeys.
And when you have accomplished what you were tasked with,
On that Day you will be exposed, and no secret of yours will remain hidden.
When evil visits him, he starts lamenting.
But Satan refused to be among those who prostrated themselves.
Leave Me alone with him whom I created alone.
A. L. R.
He said, “My Lord, give me a sign.” He said, “Your sign is that you will not speak to the people for three nights straight.”
Noon.
Indeed, the people of Ya'juj and the companions of the thicket are alike.
Allah has revealed to you in the Book that when you hear the signs of Allah disbelieving and mocking at them, do not sit with them until they engage in some other talk, or else you will be like them. Indeed Allah will gather the hypocrites and disbelievers all together in Hell.
And they will eat of its fruit, and their hands did not make it. Will they not, then, give thanks?
If you fear treachery on the part of a people, break off with them in a like manner. Allah does not like the treacherous.
What is the matter with me?
You and your Lord caused a crowd of the sinners to descend into the pit of death.
I will think that I am here for seven years."
(They are) Houris (maidens of Paradise) dressed in pavilions.
Their skins and their bellies will be melted by it.
He turned away from them and said, "O my people, I delivered my Lord's message to you and gave you good advice, but you did not like good advisers."
He called out the other day, and they answered.
Whatever good they do, they will not be denied it, and Allah knows the Godwary.
Alif Lam Mim.
And say, "Indeed, I am the clear warner."
Say, "O People of the Scripture, do you dislike us except because we believe in Allah and what has been revealed to us and what was revealed before, and because most of you are transgressors?"
And they say, "This is nothing but clear magic."
The mothers shall suckle their children for two whole years, for those who wish to complete the suckling. The father of the child shall provide for them in proper manner. No soul shall be burdened beyond capacity. No mother shall be harmed for her child, nor any father for his child. If they desire weaning by mutual consent and consultation, there is no blame on them. If you wish to engage a wet nurse for your children, there is no blame on you if you pay her fairly. Fear Allah and know that Allah sees what you do.
They will be told, "Enter them in peace and security."
"O Dawud (David)! Verily, We have made you a successor on earth, so judge between men in truth and do not follow your lust lest it should lead you astray from the Path of Allah. Verily, for those who go astray from the Path of Allah, is a severe punishment, because they forgot the Day of Reckoning."
And Abraham enjoined this upon his sons and Jacob, [saying], "O my sons, indeed Allah has chosen this religion for you, so do not die except as Muslims."
Nay, the Hour is their appointed time, and the Hour will be most calamitous and bitter.
And glorify Him morning and evening.
And if the disbelievers had all that is in the earth and the like of it with it, and they offered it to ransom themselves from the punishment of the Day of Resurrection, it would not be accepted from them. For them is a painful punishment.
Say, "Who is the Lord of the seven heavens and the Lord of the Great Throne?"
"Why not? I am the same old woman as he."
There will be rippless rippling.
The worst beasts in the sight of Allah are those who are deaf and dumb and do not understand.
I will send you back to the East.
And he had no power over them except that We would know him who believes in the Hereafter from him who is in doubt concerning it; and your Lord is the Guardian over all things.
"Then get out of here!
On parchment unrolled.
And indeed, there has come to them news containing a deterrent.
Ha. Mim.
When Allah alone is mentioned, the hearts of those who do not believe in the Hereafter shrink, but when those other than Him are mentioned, they rejoice.
Whenever they make a covenant, some of them break it, and most of them do not believe.
"Do you want to entice me?"
You do not see the sunset.
In them will be good and beautiful ones.
They say, "We feed you only for the sake of Allah. We do not want from you any reward or thanks.
Woe to those who write the Book with their hands and then say, "This is from Allah," in order to sell it for a small price. Woe to them for what their hands have written and woe to them for what they earn.
Their effort towards evil, and their drive to exile, and their attempt to seek asylum, will be exhausted.
This is what you were promised, for every penitent and heedful one.
My household is poor.
But they denied him, so We saved him and those with him in the ship, and We drowned those who denied Our signs. Indeed, they were a blind people.
And the doctor of the wounds, Elias, searched and rescued the dead.
The angels will say, "Yes indeed, why not?"
We found a whole city,
Have you not seen that Allah knows all that is in the heavens and the earth? There is no secret talk between three but He is their fourth, nor between five but He is their sixth, nor between fewer or more but He is with them wherever they may be. Then, on the Day of Resurrection, He will inform them of what they did. Indeed, Allah has knowledge of all things.
Glory be to Him and exalted be He above what they say.
I have come to you for a genuine purpose.
Do those who disbelieve think that they can make My servants their guardians besides Me? Indeed, We have prepared Hell for the hospitality of the disbelievers.
Those who spend in prosperity and adversity, those who restrain their anger, and those who forgive others. God loves the righteous.
And he said to the one he thought would be released, "Mention me to your master." But Satan made him forget to mention him to his master, and Joseph remained in prison for several years.
Indeed, you have no power over My servants except those who are astray and follow you."
On parchment unrolled.
He was trying to seduce me.
Allah has heard the speech of her who pleads with you about her husband and complains to Allah. Allah hears the conversation between you both. Indeed, Allah is Hearing and Seeing.
By the mid-morning,
On that day, you will be speechless.
And your Lord will come with the angels, rank upon rank,
If We willed, We could make it salty. Why do you not give thanks?
And if a man or woman steals, cut off their hands as a punishment from Allah. Allah is Mighty, Wise.
Ample parchment.
It may be that you have a good companion.
But when We removed the punishment from them, they broke their promise.
Perhaps he has had a friend.
The Companions of the Right Hand.
And when their eyes will be turned towards the inmates of the Fire, they will say, "Our Lord, do not put us among the wrongdoing people."
And spend out of what We have given you before death comes to one of you and he says, "My Lord, why did You not give me respite for a short time so that I could give charity and be among the righteous?"
And when the truth came to them from Us, they said, "Why has he not been given the like of what was given to Moses?" Did they not disbelieve in what was given to Moses before? They said, "They are two magicians supporting each other," and said, "We disbelieve both of them."
They will be happy with what Allah has given them, and He will protect them from the punishment of the Fire.
And in four months, it hosted the most active of the marchers.
He said, "I will not send him with you until you make a promise to God that you will bring him back to me, unless you are surrounded by enemies." And when they had made their promise, he said, "God is witness to what we say."
[It is] a decisive word.
A flight, or a meeting?
"Taste ye the Valley of the Ants?
It is not for a believer, man or woman, when Allah and His Messenger have decreed a matter, to have any choice in their affair. Whoever disobeys Allah and His Messenger has gone astray into manifest error.
They are marked before your Lord, and the punishment of the unjust is not far away.
Lo! you know that he is my reward.
O our people, respond to Allah's call and believe in Him. He will forgive you your sins and protect you from a painful punishment.
Proceed, then.
He knows all that is in the heavens and the earth. He knows all that you conceal and all that you reveal. He knows what is in your hearts.
"Verily, my father has been a man of love for me."
And We have subjected them to them, so some of them they ride and some of them they eat.
And to return you to our houses as a guide.
"What kind of woman am I?"
And the hordes of thick-black herbs.
Alif Lam Mim.
A revelation from Him who created the earth and the high heavens.
Wherever you may be, death will overtake you, even if you were in strong fortresses. If good befalls them, they say, "This is from Allah," but if evil befalls them, they say, "This is from you." What is the matter with these people that they fail to understand anything?
And do not kill the soul which Allah has forbidden except by right. And whoever is slain unjustly, We have given his heir authority, so let him not exceed the limit in slaying; surely he is helped.
"Their fathers will certainly be granted their request to settle the matter of their differences on the Day of Judgment."
The trustworthy Spirit has brought it down.
Then it will be said to them, “Where are those partners you used to claim?”
And your Lord comes with the angels, rank upon rank,
Woe to the people of the trench,
If the truth had followed their desires, the heavens and the earth and all that is between them would have been ruined. We have indeed sent them their message, but they turn away from it.
Whoever obeys the Messenger, obeys Allah. As for those who turn away, We have not sent you to be their protector.
And Noah said, "My Lord, do not leave upon the earth an unbeliever.
And you are the greatest of those who complain.
I will ask you about what harmed you.
That Allah may punish the hypocritical men and the hypocritical women, and the polytheistic men and the polytheistic women, and that Allah may turn to the believing men and the believing women, and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
The chief of the demons said, adding,
Your creation and your resurrection are only as a single soul. Allah is All-Hearing, All-Seeing.
We did not destroy any town but that it had warners.
What will you do then?
They said, "We miss the king's cup, and for him who brings it is a camel-load, and I will be responsible for it."
We sent Our messengers with clear proofs, and sent down with them the Book and the Balance, so that people may maintain justice. We sent down iron, wherein is great might and benefits for people, so that Allah may know who helps Him and His messengers in the Unseen. Indeed, Allah is Powerful and Exalted in Might.
Flee, and flee!
Has He chosen daughters rather than sons?
Except Iblis; he refused to be among those who prostrated themselves.
Those who die leaving wives should bequeath for their wives a year's maintenance without turning them out. But if they leave, there is no blame on you for what they do with themselves honourably. God is Majestic and All-wise.
Men are the protectors and maintainers of women, because Allah has granted some of them an advantage over others, and because they have spent their wealth on them. So the righteous women are obedient to their husbands, and guard what Allah has guarded. As for those from whom you fear rebellion, admonish them, and separate them from their beds, and beat them. But if they obey you, do not seek a way against them. Indeed Allah is all-high, all-great.
And the keepers of the garden wish they see, but they are not aware.
On parchment unrolled.
And for him who fears the standing before his Lord are two gardens.
On the highway there is a small band of believers, all dressed in fine silk.
When the stars are obliterated,
A warning to him who watches the decree.
This is the truth from your Lord, so do not be of those who doubt.
By your Lord, We will question them all.
In extended columns.
The distance between the two cities is fifty cubits.
so that you may walk along its spacious paths."
Say, "If your fathers, your sons, your brothers, your wives, your relatives, the wealth you have acquired, the commerce you fear may be inequitable, and the dwellings you love, are dearer to you than Allah, His Messenger, and struggling in His cause, wait until Allah brings His command." Allah does not guide the defiantly disobedient people.
They solemnly swore by Allah that if a warner came to them, they would be more guided than any other people. But when a warner came to them, it only increased their aversion.
And with Pharaoh, the owner of stakes and pegs?
They seek to settle all matters.
The trainee of women, the keeper of the Muslim women, said, “The month of Ramadhan is a test for us, to test our strength and patience.”
The heart did not lie about what it saw.
If they desire that the western tradition should not dominate the way of life of the people, let them eliminate the knowledge of the Arabic language.
Indeed, We are able to do it but a little.
You used to learn about the story of the pregnant woman.
We recite to you from the history of Moses and Pharaoh with truth for those who believe.
But how will you not know?
That you may travel through its spacious roads."
And when you departed in the morning from your family to settle the believers in their positions for the battle. Allah is All-Hearing, All-Knowing.
And weigh with a right balance.
If We had wished to take a pastime, We could have taken it from Ourselves, had We done so.
Those who are humble in their prayers.
We have made it easy in your tongue, so that they may understand.
They will not fight you all together except in fortified strongholds or from behind walls. Their hostility towards each other is severe. You think they are united, but their hearts are divided. That is because they are a people who do not understand.
The sealing of the keys.
Say, "Let people rejoice in the favor and mercy of Allah. It is better than what they accumulate."
O Prophet! When you divorce women, divorce them at their prescribed periods, and calculate the period, and fear Allah, your Lord. Do not drive them out of their homes, nor let them go away, unless they commit a proven indecency. These are the limits of Allah. Whoever exceeds the limits of Allah has wronged himself. You never know, maybe Allah will bring something new to pass.
Accursed! Accursed!
I will give you a measure of your deeds.
O you who believe! Fear Allah and speak the right word.
That is why you came to the US.
Or do they envy people for what Allah has given them of His bounty? We gave the family of Abraham the Book and Wisdom, and We gave them a great kingdom.
Those who disbelieve, if they had all that is in the earth and as much more to ransom themselves from the punishment on the Day of Resurrection, it would not be accepted from them, and they will have a painful punishment.
And in the earth are tracts neighbouring each to each, and gardens of grapes and corn and palm trees, with two or three kinds of it, watered with one water; and We make some of them excel others in food. Surely, in that are signs for a people who understand.
"Send with us the Children of Israel."
On parchment unrolled.
O Musa (Moses)! Seek to hasten!
And they say, "This is nothing but clear magic."
Whatever you give as gifts, in order to increase the wealth of the recipient, will not increase with Allah. But whatever you give in charity, seeking Allah’s pleasure, it will be double.
And those who disbelieve say, "No sign was sent down to him from his Lord." You are only a warner, and for every people there is a guide.
It is a revelation from Him who created the earth and the high heavens.
And your father was with you?
I am in error. Why do you do this?
Those who believe and do good deeds will have a never-ending reward.
This day are the good things made lawful for you. The food of those who were given the Scripture is lawful for you, and your food is lawful for them. And the chaste women from among the believers and the chaste women from among those who were given the Scripture before you are lawful for you when you give them their dowries, not fornicating nor taking them as secret paramours. Whoever disbelieves in the faith, his work will be in vain, and in the Hereafter he will be among the losers.
Then let them complete the prescribed duties, fulfill their vows, and circle around the Ancient House.
And the ships are destroyed.
What is my business then?
The king of Ya'juj has declared in the Arabic language that this is a matter of contention, and that the captives are in prison.
The believers should not take the disbelievers as allies instead of the believers. Whoever does that has nothing to do with Allah, except if you fear them. Allah warns you to be cautious of Him, and to Allah is the return.
About the people of the Thicket,
And most of the disputes between them are in the nature of war, and in the affair of the borders, and in the affair of the enemy, and in the matter of the confederates.
And they feed, for the love of Him, the indigent, the orphan, and the captive.
On parchment unrolled.
Your Lord is All-forgiving and All-merciful. Had He wanted to punish them for their sins, He would have hastened their punishment. But they have an appointed time from which they will find no escape.
But they turned away from him and said, "He is taught by others."
Did your Lord choose for you sons and choose for Himself daughters from the angels? Indeed, you utter a monstrous statement.
That is because my family is recorded in the land, and my family carries away their belongings when I feed them. You can keep away their belongings.
"Verily, I have been given a Record of My Deeds, and I have asked about it."
They do not invoke any other deity along with Allah, nor do they kill the soul which Allah has forbidden except by right, nor do they commit illegal sexual intercourse. Whoever does that will face the punishment.
Then he turned back and was proud.
Every soul will see what it has done in the past, and they will be returned to Allah, their True Lord, and what they used to invent will forsake them.
He knows everything.
Ha. Mim.
Say, "He will revive them who created them the first time, and He has knowledge of every creation."
They said, "O Shu'ayb, we do not understand much of what you say, and we know that you are weak among us. Were it not for your family, we would have stoned you, and you are not strong against us."
And bring forth the hidden.
On parchment unrolled.
O People of the Scripture! Why dispute about Abraham, when the Torah and the Gospel were not sent down until after him? Do you not understand?
We tried the people of Pharaoh before them, and a noble messenger came to them.
And when Our messengers came to Lot, he was grieved on their account, and felt himself powerless to protect them. They said, "Do not fear, nor grieve. We will save you and your family, except your wife. She will be of those who stay behind."
Say, "I am forbidden to worship those whom you worship besides God." Say, "I will not follow your desires, for then I will go astray and not be of the rightly guided."
You can only wear one pair of them.
He said, "Do you say of the truth when it has come to you that it is magic? Magicians do not succeed."
Aaron, Elisha,
On parchment unrolled.
Then indeed, after that, you will die.
The father of the devil is very old.
He said, "We shall see whether you have spoken the truth or whether you are a liar.
Forbidden (by Allah), and forbidden (by Allah),
If any one of the polytheists seeks refuge with you, grant him protection until he hears the Word of Allah, and then escort him to his place of safety. That is because they are a people who do not know.
Or do they envy people for what Allah has given them of His bounty? But We gave the family of Abraham the Book and Wisdom, and We gave them a great kingdom.
See how they denied themselves, and how their false deities came to nothing.
A people were killed in the carriage, and they were searched for.
"Merciful Lord," he said, "I have come.
Those of the right hand.
Those who believe and do good deeds will not be blamed for what they may have eaten, provided they fear Allah and believe and do good deeds, then fear Allah and believe, then fear Allah and do good deeds. Allah loves the doers of good.
But those for whom the good reward has preceded from Us will be kept away from it.
"I speak only the utmost words," he said. "We shall continue on our way."
When you meet those who disbelieve, strike their necks until, when you have slain them, then make a covenant with them. Then either set them free as a favor or take ransom until the war lays down its burden. That is it. If Allah had pleased, He would have exacted retribution from them. But He tests one another. And those who are slain in the way of Allah, He will never let their deeds go to waste.
O you who believe! If an evildoer brings you any news, verify it, lest you harm people out of ignorance, and then become regretful for what you did.
They will be waited upon by immortal youths.
So wash your whole body and then put on a fine shade.
He has no knowledge of that.
The companions of Paradise on that Day will have a better abode and a better resting place.
Those whom they invoke besides Allah create nothing and are themselves created.
Their messages are in the Arabic language.
The pathways of the heavens, so that I may look upon the God of Moses, though I think he is a liar." Thus, Pharaoh's evil deeds were made seeming good to him, and he was barred from the way. Pharaoh's guile only led him to perdition.
Allah will admit those who believe and do righteous deeds into Gardens beneath which rivers flow. But those who disbelieve enjoy themselves and eat as cattle eat, and their abode is Hell.
Which favors of your Lord will you both belie?
And whoever cannot find a slave, he shall fast for two successive months before they touch one another; and whoever cannot find a slave, then he shall feed sixty needy ones. This, that you may believe in Allah and His Messenger. These are the limits of Allah, and the unbelievers shall have a painful punishment.
There was not one who was saved but by a ruse in five years.
By no means!
Have they not travelled through the land and seen what was the end of those before them? They were stronger than themselves, and they cultivated the land and built upon it more than they have built. Their messengers came to them with clear proofs. God did not wrong them, but they wronged themselves.
Rejoice, for the good things of this life will never end.
Indeed, Our signs are of the ancients, in which there is knowledge.
The truthfulness of the affair.
They rejoice in what Allah has given them out of His grace, and they rejoice for those who have not yet joined them, that they shall have no fear, nor shall they grieve.
I have taken refuge with my Lord and your Lord lest you stone me.
Those who do not worship any other deity along with Allah and do not kill the soul which Allah has forbidden except by right, and do not commit fornication. Whoever does this will be punished.
And stone the spider.
And of His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the difference of your languages and colours. Indeed in that are signs for those who know.
We would have been sincere servants of Allah.’
Or He may destroy them for what they have earned, and He pardons much.
And among them are unlettered people who know nothing of the Book except wishful thinking, and they are only guessing.
We feed you only for the sake of Allah, and we desire from you neither recompense nor thanks.
And whenever a surah is revealed enjoining, "Believe in Allah and fight along with His Messenger," the affluent among them ask leave of you and say, "Leave us and we will be with those who will stay behind."
I am in error. Why do you do this?
They have certainly disbelieved who say, "Allah is the Messiah, son of Mary." Say, "Who can prevent Allah from destroying the Messiah, son of Mary, if He wished to destroy his mother and all who are on earth?" To Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and all that is between them. He creates whatever He wishes, and Allah has power over all things.
We will come to you. Do you hear? We know where you are.
O People who Believe! Obey Allah and obey the Noble Messenger and those who are in authority among you; so if you are in a dispute, refer it to Allah and the Noble Messenger, if you believe in Allah and the Last Day; this is better and has a better outcome.
And many of the youths, who are of age, are devoted to the religion, so that they may obtain from it what they desire.
If you are in doubt about what We have revealed to you, ask those who read the Book before you. The truth has come to you from your Lord, so do not be one of those who doubt.
Then they turned to themselves and said, "Indeed, it is you who are the wrongdoers."
No! Indeed, yes!
The month of Ramadhan brings about the creation of a new beginning for man, and brings about the creation of a new relationship with his Lord. This is a matter of importance for the Muslims.
And the Hereafter is better for you than the present.
They were not able to harm him, nor could they defend themselves.
That is because there is a certainty in it.
They attribute daughters to God, glory be to Him, but they have what they desire.
Have you seen him who disbelieves in Our signs and says, "I will certainly be given wealth and children?"
Then We revealed to you, [O Muhammad], that you should follow the religion of Abraham, inclining toward truth, and he was not of the polytheists.
And warn your nearest relations.
(It is) dust of the black mud.
They say, "Why has no sign been sent down to him from his Lord?" Say, "God is certainly able to send down a sign, but most of them do not know."
The sealing of the keys.
He causes the night to enter into the day and the day into the night, and He has subjected the sun and the moon, each running for a specified term. Such is Allah, your Lord. To Him belongs all sovereignty, and those whom you invoke besides Him do not possess even as much as the membrane of a datestone.
Ample parchment.
The sealing of the keys.
And it almost bursts with rage. Every time a group is cast into it, its keepers will ask them, "Did no warner come to you?"
That is because there is a strong wind blowing.
O Children of Israel! Remember My favor which I bestowed upon you, and that I preferred you to the worlds.
Indeed, man was created impatient.
Then I spoke to them both publicly and in secret.
This day all good things have been made lawful for you. The food of the People of the Book is lawful for you, and your food is lawful for them. Lawful for you are chaste women from among the believers, and chaste women from among those who were given the Book before you, provided you give them their dowries and maintain chastity, not fornication, nor taking secret paramours. Whoever disbelieves in the faith, his work will be in vain, and in the Hereafter he will be among the losers.
[They will be told,] ‘Certainly not.
Ample parchment.
Noon.
But they disbelieved in it. Soon they will know.
He is Allah, there is no god except He, the Knower of the sensible and the Unseen, the Merciful, the Compassionate.
Know that Allah is severe in punishment, and that Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.
Those who disbelieve and hinder others from the way of Allah, He will render their deeds devoid of all virtue.
And glorify Him morning and evening.
That is because the people of the city, men and women, are standing in rows for the distribution of blood.
In a lofty Garden.
The Day when man will remember what he has done.
You will not be regretful. You have been tested.
Have you not seen the hypocrites say to their brethren who disbelieve among the People of the Book, "If you are driven out, we will go with you, and we will not listen to anyone about you, and if war is waged against you, we will help you." But Allah bears witness that they are liars.
Kaf. Ha. Ya. Ayn.
Do you know where they are?
So turn away from Me, the ignorant.
Ha Mim.
And We saved those who believed and used to fear Allah.
Thus it is on a day of intense cold.
"If only you could do so."
Satan only desires to create enmity and hatred among you by means of wine and gambling, and to turn you away from the remembrance of Allah and from prayer. Will you, then, desist?
We did not know that there was a barrier between them.
This is a reminder for you to take.
On parchment unrolled.
On parchment unrolled.
So which of your Lord’s marvels will you dispute?
The angry one, who seeks refuge in the nethermost part of the land, does not like the approach of the enemy.
A well-pleased avid man has been robbed for a ransom.
A people before you asked such questions, and then became disbelievers in them.
This is how We bring the dead to life.
We destroyed it after it had been destroyed.
We set firm mountains on it, and We gave you sweet water to drink.
When Allah showed them to you in your dream as few, and if He had shown them to you as many, you would have lost heart, and you would have disputed over the matter, but Allah saved you. Indeed, He is Knowing of that within the breasts.
On parchment unrolled.
So remind, if reminding benefits.
Say, "On the Day of Judgement, the faith of the disbelievers will not benefit them, nor will they be granted any respite."
They rejoice in what has come to them of grace from Allah, and they rejoice for those who have not yet joined them that they will have nothing to fear, nor will they grieve.
I have given my sister a son.
And what will explain to you what the Crusher is?
They will recline on couches lined with silk brocade, and the fruits of the two gardens will be near at hand.
The default state of disbelief is that of disbelief.
The stream of the unbelievers on the stone altered for the faithful, so that they may be conveyed their message.
Your Lord is the Self-sufficient, the Merciful. If He wills, He can take you away, and replace you by whomever He wills, just as He created you from the seed of other people.
"O my Lord! I have indeed succeeded in succeeding my predecessors."
Indeed the righteous will be in bliss,
By the sky and the nightly comer,
So do not obey the disbelievers, but strive against them with a great endeavour.
On parchment unrolled.
He said, “He works for the Children of the Ditch.”
Ain. Sin.
You will surely be tested in your possessions and in yourselves, and you will surely hear from those who were given the Book before you and from those who associate others with Allah much abuse. But if you endure patiently and fear Allah, that indeed is a matter of determination.
Then you will surely imprison me, and let those with insight and determination mount up the mountain.
And landmarks; and by the stars they are guided.
[It is] a [single] murmuring,
It will be said, "O My servants, today you will have no fear, nor will you grieve.
And gives a little, then grudgingly?
What, if we were to be constrained together, how would it be?
If you fear that you will not act justly towards orphans, marry such women as seem good to you, two, three, or four. But if you fear that you will not act justly towards them, then only one, or what your right hands possess. That is more proper, so that you will not be unfair.
So take it in full, and seize them.
And We shall turn to what they did and render it as scattered dust.
They said, "Indeed, we found our fathers doing so."
A white-eyed whale, waiting for you.
Allah is the Self-sufficient, the Merciful.
When Moses said to his people, "God commands you to sacrifice a heifer," they said, "Do you make fun of us?" He said, "God forbid that I should be among the ignorant."
The Crusher.
And this is the favour with which you reproach me, that you have enslaved the Children of Israel."
"I play with my people," I said, "and wish he had not taken an ill-deed.
It is not for you to follow my instincts. I asked you earlier, "Do you forget?"
We have guided you to the law of God. Follow it and do not follow the desires of those who do not know.
On parchment unrolled.
And faces on that Day will be covered with dust.
They observe the surroundings.
The name of action.
A mighty Blast will strike them.
It is a sealed record.
A vigilant man was found carrying a tractor in a bright morning.
The sunrise,
On the Day when the Shin will be exposed, and they will be called to prostrate themselves, they will not be able.
He will say, "Will you look down?"
It is Allah who created the heavens and the earth, and sent down water from the sky with which He brought forth fruits for your provision, and subjected the ships to sail upon the sea by His command, and subjected the rivers for you.
And if you ask them, “Who created the heavens and the earth, and made the sun and the moon subservient?”, they will surely say, “Allah.” So where are they reverting?
He said, "In my thirty years I realized that the matter was settled."
Leave them to eat and enjoy, and let their wishes deceive them. They will come to know.
They took their enjoyment in the worldly life, but the army and the Confederates also took their enjoyment in the worldly life.
Ha Mim.
These are the prophets upon whom Allah bestowed favor from the descendants of Adam, and from those whom We carried with Noah, and from the descendants of Abraham and Israel, and from those whom We guided and chose. When the verses of the Most Gracious were recited to them, they fell down prostrating and weeping.
Those before them also rejected Our signs, and these have not attained a tenth of what We had given them. But they rejected My messengers. So how terrible was My punishment!
And those who take protectors besides Him, Allah watches over them, and you are not a guardian over them.
No! Indeed, that is better.
Then he went to his family and brought a fat calf.
When he saw a fire, and said to his family, "Stay here. I can see a fire. Perhaps I can bring you a brand from it, or find some guidance at the fire."
There, it is a place of great danger, so go forth.
Unquestionably, it is here.
The door of the East will be opened and they will be told, "This is just a short story".
O believers, fear God, and give up what remains of usury, if you are believers.
They will not hear therein any vain talk or sinful speech.
Those in the Fire will say to the keepers of Hell, "Pray to your Lord to lighten for us the punishment for a day."
They said, "Father, we went racing and left Joseph behind with our belongings, and the wolf ate him. But you will not believe us even if we speak the truth."
And how the earth was spread out?
They seek to deceive Allah and those who believe, but they deceive none except themselves, though they do not perceive.
Indeed, there has come to them news containing warning.
O Dawud (David)! Verily, We have made you a successor on earth, so judge between men in truth and do not follow your desires, lest they lead you astray from Allah's Way. And those who go astray from Allah's Way will have a severe punishment, because they forgot the Day of Reckoning.
You are more afraid of them in their hearts than Allah. That is because they are a people who do not understand.
Those who deny the Day of Judgment.
They said, "We have believed in the Lord of the Universe,
What is the matter with you that you should dishonor women?
Alif. Lam. Mim. Ra.
This is the realm of the Unknown; no one knows it.
On parchment unrolled.
"Make coats of mail and measure their links well. Do good deeds. I am Seeing what you do."
Have you seen the one who turned away?
And it says, "Come, come,"
And the one who shouted, "Our Lord, stop this," was stopped by the evildoers in the evening.
On parchment unrolled.
"I am a trustworthy Messenger to you.
The sunset will be an excellent time.
Proceed, then.
"O Midian," he said, "maybe it is closer. I took a note of the fish when it struck the bank. Are you in the city of Aykah?"
And We did not send before you but men from the people of the cities to whom We revealed. Have they not travelled through the land and seen what was the end of those before them? And the abode of the Hereafter is better for the righteous. Do you not understand?
And their likeness is as a rain from the sky, wherein is darkness and thunder and lightning. They thrust their fingers in their ears at the sound of the thunderclaps for fear of death, but Allah encompasses the disbelievers.
Abraham was neither a Jew nor a Christian, but he was a Muslim, and he was not of the polytheists.
"Of course, why not?"
I have come to you with a reminder.
Then he gathered and proclaimed.
No! Indeed, yes!
They are the unaccepted ones.
AlifLaamMeem.
And if I come near to the answer to this question, I will be buried alive."
He is destined to be killed,
Indeed, you see them walking around with conceit.
On thrones, facing one another.
He causes the night to enter into the day and causes the day to enter into the night, and He knows the thoughts within the breasts.
And he went away from it.
So glorify the name of your Lord, the Great.
They think that I am soft in speech.
And give increase to the devil?
But as for the woman, what is the matter with her?
They assign daughters to Allah, glory be to Him, and for themselves what they desire!
And if the confederates are not in thousands, their fellows and they who believe in Allah will be imprisoned.
And it will be said to them, "Where are those you used to worship?"
Those to whom We have given the Book rejoice in what has been revealed to you, but some of the factions reject part of it. Say, "I am commanded to worship God and not associate anything with Him. To Him I call, and to Him is my return."
Their share of the fruits has been increased, and corruption has appeared in the cities, and the disbelievers have been expelled after a six-month delay.
And on the day when He will call to them and say, "What answer did you give to the messengers?"
They said, "O Moses, will you throw down or shall we be the ones to throw down?"
They ask you about the new moons. Say, "They are indicators of time for mankind and for the pilgrimage." It is not righteousness to enter the houses from their backs. But righteousness is for one who fears God. Enter houses through their doors and fear God, so that you may be successful.
And he cast lots, and he was among the losers.
Praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of all the worlds.
The example of those who do not believe in the Hereafter is that of Allah. Exalted is Allah, and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
And take alms out of their wealth to purify them and increase them in righteousness, and pray for them. Indeed, your prayer is a source of tranquillity for them. Allah is Hearing and Knowing.
All the Christians from the city will be evacuated.
Alif Lam Mim.
It is He who blesses you and His angels so that He may bring you out from darkness into light. He is All-merciful to the believers.
By the Lord of the Easts and the Wests, We have the power to do so.
Allah does not forgive that partners should be associated with Him, but He forgives anything besides that to whomever He wills. Whoever associates partners with Allah has strayed far away.
Have they not seen the sky above them? How We built it and made it beautiful, and it has no cracks.
We are only with you for a limited time."
In Arabic, the story of the two daughters of Isaac.
This is the time for a change.
We are going to make a decision.
Thereafter, in a few days, they helped themselves.
In finery, or in architecture.
On parchment unrolled.
Such were the 'Ad who disbelieved in the signs of their Lord, and disobeyed His messengers, and followed the bidding of every stubborn enemy.
Their end will be that both of them will be in the Fire, abiding eternally therein. Such is the reward of the wrongdoers.
We were told that death would give them power against our enemies.
No call will come to it, nor will it be answered.
And We caused a gourd tree to grow over him.
On parchment unrolled.
On parchment unrolled.
She said, "I seek refuge in the Most Merciful from you, if you should fear Him."
And those on the right hand.
By the heaven and by the night-star!
When they came upon you from above you and from below you, and when your eyes were stupefied with horror, and your hearts leapt to your throats, and you thought thoughts about Allah.
Ar-Ra.
On parchment unrolled.
The unbelievers planned and Allah planned, and Allah is the best of planners.
But they rejected him, so We saved him and those with him in the ship, and drowned those who rejected Our signs. They were indeed a blind people.
Peace be upon Moses and Aaron.
Nor darkness and light.
You will drink like thirsty camels.
And if a provocation from Satan should provoke you, seek refuge in Allah. Indeed, He is the Hearing, the Knowing.
The good deed and the evil deed are not equal. Repel evil with what is better, and behold, he between whom and you there was enmity will become as though he was a warm friend.
And do not make your oaths a means of deceit between yourselves, lest foot should slip after being firmly planted, and you should taste evil for having hindered people from the way of Allah, and a severe punishment.
The angels send down revelations.
Say, "Believe in it or do not believe." But those who were given knowledge before it, when it is recited to them, fall down on their faces, prostrating.
Follow what is revealed to you, and be patient until Allah issues His judgement, and He is the best of judges.
The women of the desert who were restricted in their studies were called with a shout from the sound of a powerful trumpet.
On the Day when Allah will resurrect them all together, they will swear to Him as they swear to you, thinking that they are on the right path. But they are liars.
And mention in the Book, Ishmael. He was true to his promise, and was a messenger and a prophet.
The Book of Decrees.
Before long, in a distant place?
Behold, they are on the surface of the earth.
Have you seen him who turns away?
On parchment unrolled.
We have sent down the Book to you with the truth, so worship Him, making your religion sincerely His.
He said, “But your lies are worse. I am indeed the keeper of a sacred covenant.”
Your Lord is the Almighty, the Merciful.
What is the matter then?
And those on the right hand.
We relate to you from the history of Moses and Pharaoh in truth for those who believe.
Do you not understand?
By the heaven and by the nightly comer!
Their vows and their obligations are recorded.
I have been a learned person.
Allah! There is no Allah save Him, the Lord of the Mighty Throne.
"To bring you every expert magician."
And I am not aught thereof.
With the Jews, and the religion prohibited.
A numerical number.
On parchment unrolled.
Say, "Nothing will happen to us except what Allah has decreed for us. He is our protector." And upon Allah let the believers rely.
When the youths sought refuge in the cave, they said, "Our Lord, grant us mercy from Yourself and prepare for us right conduct in our affair."
The love of desires, women and children, heaped-up treasures of gold and silver, branded horses, cattle and crops, is made to seem fair to men. It is the provision of the life of this world, and Allah has the best abode.
On parchment unrolled.
He is the Forgiving, the Loving,
I made a promise to them and I fulfilled it.
Those who believe and do righteous deeds will have Gardens beneath which rivers flow. That is the great success.
There is a fountain there, called Salsabil.
They said, "If he steals, a brother of his stole before." But Joseph kept it secret in his heart and did not reveal it to them. He said, "You are worse than he. God knows best what you allege."
We will surely resurrect the dead. We record what they have done and their effects. We have recorded everything in a clear Book.
He is more worthy of my attention than I am.
Our Lord, You know what we conceal and what we reveal. Nothing in the heavens or the earth is hidden from Allah.
But when he saw their hands not reaching for it, he became suspicious of them and felt afraid of them. They said, "Do not be afraid. We have been sent to the people of Lot."
What is the matter with the wilderness?
We shall do better than that.
The messengers came to the people of Pharaoh.
Are the best recorders.
We are the best to separate the bad from the good.
“I am this, and we are this, and I am not an army, but a Herald of Warning.”
The default state of disbelief is that of disbelief.
But you will be warned.
So We subjected the wind to him, blowing gently by his command wherever he wished.
And when they make a covenant, a party of them cast it aside? But most of them do not believe.
We have only decided to do so.
They said, "O Hud, you have not brought us any proof, and we will not leave our gods merely because you say so, and we will not believe in you."
They said, "O sorcerer, pray to your Lord for us by the covenant He has made with you. We shall certainly be guided."
I say, "If you are in need of help, then help [must be] me."
Have they not looked at the heaven above them, how We built and adorned it, and it has no cracks?
Do you create it or are We the Creator?
Fruits; and they will be honored.
This is nothing but a revelation from God.
Like the one who said, "I am the best messenger, the best spoken word,"
Indeed in that is a sign for those who fear the punishment of the Hereafter. That is a day on which mankind will be gathered together, and that is a day witnessed.
Say, "He will revive them who created them the first time, and He has knowledge of every creation."
And they will submit to Allah on that Day, and what they used to invent will forsake them.
He said, "Yes, and you will be among those near [to me]."
And hold fast to Allah's rope, and do not be divided among yourselves. Remember Allah's favor to you when you were enemies and He united your hearts, and by His favor you became brothers. You were on the brink of a pit of fire, and He saved you from it. Thus Allah makes His signs clear to you, that you may be guided.
Do they feel secure from the seizure of Allah? None feels secure from the seizure of Allah except those who are doomed to perish.
Allah will punish him with the greatest punishment.
And [by] the call of the messenger, "Our Lord, indeed, these are a people who do not believe."
On parchment unrolled.
By Allah, We sent messengers before you to many nations, but Satan made their deeds seem attractive to them. So he is their patron today, and they will have a painful punishment.
It is a Book sent down to you, so let there be no straitness in your heart about it, that you may warn thereby, and as a reminder to the believers.
On parchment unrolled.
Do they not know that it is Allah who accepts repentance from His servants and receives their charities and that Allah is the Forgiving, the Merciful?
They said, "Build a pyre for him and throw him into the blazing fire."
Or like a rainstorm from the sky, wherein is darkness and thunder and lightning. They put their fingers in their ears against the thunderclaps, fearing death. But Allah encompasses the disbelievers.
We relate to you from the history of Moses and Pharaoh in truth for those who believe.
Have you thought?
Say, "I am only a human like you, but it has been revealed to me that your God is One God. So be steadfast to Him and seek forgiveness from Him. Woe to the polytheists."
Indeed in that is a reminder for whoever has a heart or listens attentively.
And when their eyes will be turned towards the inmates of the Fire, they will say, "Our Lord, do not place us with the wrongdoing people."
On parchment unrolled.
The Zip-fibre.
On parchment unrolled.
It is he who turns away the orphans,
And We left for him among the later generations.
He has not left a hole in it.
And if they break their oaths after their covenant and revile your religion, fight the leaders of unbelief, for they have no oaths, so that they may desist.
And landmarks. And by the stars they are guided.
Does man think that We will never assemble his bones?
This is Allah, your true Lord. What is there, after the truth, except error? So where do you stray?
Kaf, Ha, Ya, 'Ayn, Lam, Meem.
Say, "I am forbidden to worship those whom you invoke besides God." Say, "I will not follow your desires. If I did, I would have gone astray and not been among the rightly guided."
I do not need to swear by the twilight.
And spend out of what We have provided you before death comes to one of you and he says, "My Lord, why did You not respite me for a short time so that I could give charity and become one of the righteous?"
Miscellaneous.
"Lord, and Victor,
He will say, "So it is. My signs came to you, but you forgot them. So today, We will forget you."
And those who stand firm in their testimonies.
Do those who earn evil think that We will make them equal in life and death to those who believe and do righteous deeds? How bad is their judgement!
No! Indeed, that is true!
On parchment unrolled.
And those who believe and do good deeds are the people of Paradise; they will abide in it forever.
And of His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the difference of your languages and colours. Surely, in that are signs for those who know.
Except those who pray,
And remember Isma'il (Ishmael), Idris (Enoch), Dhul Kifl (Isaiah), all were among the patient.
Go, you two!
On parchment unrolled.
They said, "You will only be given tidings of falsehood on the basis of falsehood." The army claimed that the army spoke a falsehood.
So I swear by the places where the Qur'an descends.
There is a ready record of every one's deeds.
So do not worship any other god with Allah, lest you be among the punished.
The fools among the people will say, "What has turned them away from the direction they used to face before?" Say, "To Allah belong the East and the West. He guides whom He wills to the right path."
And those who give zakah.
Let them worship the Lord of this House.
Go, you two!
He cast down his staff, and behold, it was a serpent manifest.
He said, "We miss the king's cup. Whoever brings it will receive a camel-load of grain, and I will be responsible for it."
Those who disbelieve in the Reminder after it has come to them, for it is a noble Book.
When did you see the last creation?
We have made the Quran easy to understand and remember. Is there anyone who would receive admonition?
No! Indeed, yes!
And whomever Allah guides, for him there is no misleader.
Thus does Allah seal up the hearts of those who do not believe.
And you have other benefits from them, and that you may reach a need in your breasts from them, and on them and on ships you are carried.
In truthfulness.
Go forth light and heavy, and strive with your wealth and your lives in the way of Allah. That is better for you, if you only knew.
I want men to worship with their hands, not to be contentious or niggardly.
"Cast every stubborn disbeliever into Hell."
And when Allah will gather the Noble Messengers and ask them, “What response did you get?” They will say, “We do not have any knowledge; indeed only You are the Knower of the hidden.”
So taste [the punishment] because you forgot the meeting of this Day of yours. Indeed, We have forgotten you. So taste the everlasting punishment for what you used to do.
And women past child- bearing who do not desire marriage, there is no blame on them if they lay aside their outer garments, provided they do not display their beauty. But if they abstain, it is better for them. And Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
You have no one to plead for you.
When We give people a taste of mercy, they rejoice in it. But when evil befalls them because of what their hands have earned, they begin to despair.
And the Prophet said to them, "The sign of his kingship is that the Ark will come to you carrying tranquility from your Lord, and the relics left by Moses and Aaron, and by the angels. This is a sign for you if you are believers."
Then We seized him and his hosts, and cast them into the sea, and he was blameworthy.
And they say, "These are fables of the ancients which he has written down, so they are dictated to him morning and evening."
"Enter them in peace and security."
We have sent Our messengers with clear proofs, and sent down to them the Book and the Balance, so that people may maintain justice. We sent down iron, wherein there is great might and benefits for people, and so that Allah may know those who help Him and His messengers in the Unseen. Indeed, Allah is Powerful and Exalted in Might.
And they said, "O our people, this she-camel of Allah is a sign for you. Leave her to feed on Allah's earth, and do not touch her with harm, lest a near punishment should overtake you."
And of His signs is that you see the earth barren, but when We send down water upon it, it stirs and swells. Indeed, He who revives it will revive the dead. Indeed, He is over all things competent.
He creates in the first instance and will repeat it.
On that day, they will be raised up.
Then I revealed to them and spoke to them secretly.
He is worthy of blame.
The sealing of the keys.
They said, "O sorcerer, pray to your Lord for us by the covenant He has made with you. We will certainly be guided."
And they will be in the highest place.
On parchment unrolled.
A revelation from Him who created the earth and the high heavens.
None prevents their contributions from being accepted except that they disbelieve in Allah and His Noble Messenger, and when they come to prayer, they do so lazily, and when they spend, they do so grudgingly.
It is the Day of Judgment.
He thought he was deluded.
He denied my death, and I was a help to him.
Thereupon he departed.
"Extricate yourselves," (they will be told),
I am responsible for the decision and for the result."
They will say, "Rather, you will find no refuge. You have brought this upon us. What an evil refuge."
And their contributions are not accepted except because they disbelieved in Allah and His Noble Messenger, and they do not come to prayer except lazily, and they do not give contributions except unwillingly.
Who created me, and He guides me.
So We answered him, and removed his suffering, and We restored his family to him, and the like of them with them, as a mercy from Us, and as a reminder for the worshipers.
He looked around, and saw his staff.
He calls upon those whose harm is nearer than their benefit. What an evil protector and what an evil friend!
And on the Day whereon the Hour is established, that Day shall they be separated.
Have you considered what you emit?
O you who believe! Do not advance before Allah and His Apostle, and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Hearing and Knowing.
The righteous will drink from a cup mixed with Kafur.
and said, "My Lord,
And whatever good they do, they will not be denied it, and Allah knows the Godwary.
And you have come to Us alone as We created you the first time, leaving behind you all that We had bestowed upon you. We do not see with you your intercessors, those whom you claimed to be associates with Allah. The ties between you have been severed, and what you used to claim has gone away from you.
Verily We! We are the زلزلers.
And they planned, and Allah planned, and Allah is the best of planners.
Ha.
A gift, a wonder.
He will not inform you.
And you are welcome, O Prophet.
The name of action.
My forefathers were also tested with AI.
And call your mother with you.
And your Lord will come with angels ranged in ranks.
Do not be foolish, and ask for something soft. They will settle the matter with kindness.
And when it was said to them, "Dwell in this city and eat from it wherever you wish, and say, 'Relieve us of our burdens,' and enter the gate prostrating, We will forgive you your sins and increase the righteous."
The righteous will drink from a cup mixed with Kafur.
The knowledge of the unknown is stronger than the knowledge of the known, and it is stronger in protection.
"O my dear Prophet (Mohammed – peace and blessings be upon him)! This is indeed a great occasion for me to meet you.”
The Companions of the Thicket!
And those that spread out the clouds,
We have sent down the Remembrance, and We will guard it.
There was a sign for Sheba in their dwellings. Two gardens on the right and on the left. "Eat of what your Lord has provided for you and be grateful to Him. A good land and a forgiving Lord."
You are rightly guided.
Some faces on that Day will be covered with dust,
Therein descend the angels and the Spirit by the command of their Lord.
They use the sorcerer for their own gains.
And this is the favor with which you reproach me, that you have enslaved the Children of Israel."
And share my task,
When Allah alone is mentioned, the hearts of those who do not believe in the Hereafter shrink with resentment, but when those besides Him are mentioned, they rejoice.
And the moon is eclipsed.
And when Allah will say, "O Jesus son of Mary! Remember My favor upon you and upon your mother, when I supported you with the Holy Spirit, so that you spoke to the people in the cradle and in maturity, and when I taught you the Book, the Wisdom, the Torah, the Gospel, and when you created from clay the likeness of a bird by My permission, and when you breathed into it, and it became a bird by My permission, and you healed the blind and the leper by My permission, and when you brought forth the dead by My permission; and when I restrained the Children of Israel from you when you came to them with clear proofs, and the disbelievers among them said, "This is plain magic."
Their messengers said to them, "We are nothing but human beings like you, but Allah bestows His favors on whomever He wills of His servants. We cannot give you authority except by the permission of Allah. And upon Allah let the believers rely.
What is the status of his family?
"Yes, why not? But how can I do that?
The finest sealed wool.
The doctor of law,
By the heaven and the night-star!
O company of jinn and mankind, if you are able to pass through the regions of the heavens and the earth, then pass through; but you cannot pass through except by authority.
The people will say, "What did you do when we were hungry?" "Have we any answer?" "Indeed, we have not."
We will recite to you the true story of Moses and Pharaoh for a genuine purpose for those who believe.
By the star when it goes down,
On parchment unrolled.
It is like a cup of crystal clear wine.
None has heard the word of truth, nor has it been shown to him.
That you will have whatever you choose?
And treasures and a noble station.
To Pharaoh and his nobles, but they followed the command of Pharaoh, and the command of Pharaoh was not right-directing.
Ha. Mim.
And most surely there is a man among the inhabitants of the city who will come to them.
Shall the unfaithful record be taken?
As for those who disbelieve, their deeds are like a mirage in a desert. The thirsty man supposes it to be water, but when he comes to it, he finds it to be nothing. He finds Allah there, who pays him his account in full, and Allah is swift in taking account.
"No hope is left for those who enter it."
And ordain for us what is good in this world and the Hereafter. We have turned to You. He said, “I give sustenance to whomever I will, but My mercy encompasses all things. I will ordain it for those who are Godwary and pay the zakat and those who believe in My signs.”
O People given the Book(s)! Believe in what We have sent down confirming what is with you, before We obliterate faces and turn them towards their backs, or curse them as We cursed the Sabbath-breakers, and Allah’s command is due.
They said, "O Minister, he has a father, a very old man, so take one of us in his place. Indeed, we see you as a doer of good."
On parchment unrolled.
He said, "No one despairs of the mercy of his Lord except those who have gone astray."
And for having forbidden you.
Allah and His angels send blessings upon the Prophet. O you who believe, send blessings upon him and salute him with a goodly greeting.
Then We shall separate from every sect those who were most rebellious against Allah.
And We placed the passengers in the ranks of the tenth and the first on the right. So what did you intend?
Alas the woe!
And if they reject you, so were messengers rejected before you. And to Allah return all matters.
And leave alone the Hereafter.
When she heard of their guile, she sent for them and prepared a banquet for them, and gave a knife to each of them, and said, "Come out before them." When they saw him, they were so amazed that they cut their hands, and said, "Exaltations to Allah! This is not a human being, but a noble angel."
She said, "Indeed, he is sick in his bed."
Or have We given them a Book before this, to which they are holding fast?
So you and what you worship,
Do not those who disbelieve remember that the heavens and the earth were joined together, then We separated them, and We made every living thing from water? Will they not believe?
Allah has already helped you in many situations, and on the day of Hunayn, when your great number did not avail you at all, and the earth became confining for you, then you turned back, fleeing.
And verily, to all, your Lord will pay back in full their deeds. Verily, He is All-Aware of what they do.
On parchment unrolled.
He will burn in a blazing Fire.
Then he frowned and scowled,
But what did he say?
Those who disbelieve - if they possessed all that is in the earth and the like of it with it, and were they to ransom themselves from the punishment of the Day of Resurrection, it would not be accepted from them, and for them is a painful punishment.
Then We would have given you a double punishment in this world and a double punishment after death, and then you would have found none to help you against Us.
But they rejected him, so the earthquake seized them, and they lay lifeless prostrate in their homes.
And We helped him against the people who rejected Our signs. They were indeed an evil people, so We drowned them all.
Have they not seen the birds above them spreading their wings and folding them in? Only the Most Merciful holds them up. Indeed, He watches over everything.
I will punish him severely or slay him, unless he brings me a valid excuse."
And We taught him the art of making coats of mail to protect you from your violence. Will you then be grateful?
You will see the wrongdoers fearful of what they have earned, and it will befall them. But those who believe and do righteous deeds will be in the meadows of the Gardens. They will have whatever they wish from their Lord. That is the great bounty.
He said, "This is nothing but magic from before.
On parchment unrolled.
Their brothers will be their guardians.
"O Saul, I had a dream that I and my friend were selling our flocks, and we were rightly guided."
He said, "These are my daughters, if you must do something."
Except the chosen servants of Allah.
But they denied him, so the earthquake seized them, and they lay lifeless prostrate in their homes.
He is Allah, there is no god except Him, the Knower of the unseen and the seen. He is the Beneficent, the Merciful.
They look after him.
No way is there to go down to the heights.
And when they see a sign, they ridicule.
The sealing of the keys.
Those who keep their covenant with Allah and do not break their covenant.
He does not speak outwardly.
O you who believe! Be careful of your duty to Allah and speak the right word.
So let them worship the Lord of this House.
Beware! It is a mercy.
He said, “Get down from it. It is not for you to be arrogant here. Begone, for you are among the humiliated.”
Go, you two!
Those who responded to the call of Allah and His Noble Messenger after they had been harmed will have a great reward.
On the Day when Allah will resurrect them all together, they will swear to Him as they swear to you, thinking that they have something. Indeed, they are liars!
Those who turn away from idle talk.
And Moses said, "Our Lord, You have given Pharaoh and his nobles splendor and wealth in the life of this world, our Lord, so that they lead [people] astray from Your way. Our Lord, destroy their wealth and harden their hearts so that they will not believe until they see the painful punishment."
When it comes to Him.
There will be marches on the 10th and the 16th of the month, in commemoration of the Day of Reckoning.
And that it is He who is the Lord of Sirius?
All that is evil is hateful to Allah.
This is his home.
Or did they create the heavens and the earth? Rather, they are not certain.
And when Our clear verses are recited to them, you will see denial on the faces of those who disbelieve, and they will attack those who recite to them Our verses. Say, "I inform you of something worse than that, and it is Hell which Allah has promised those who disbelieve, and it is an evil destination."
The sealing of the keys.
This is surely a source of bitter regret for the unbelievers.
And you will listen to it, but you will be deceived.
Allah strengthens those who believe with the truth in this world and in the Hereafter, and Allah leads the wrongdoers astray. And Allah does what He will.
And Allah does not grant a soul respite once its term has come to end, and Allah is Aware of what you do.
All food was lawful to the Children of Israel except what Israel forbade himself before the Torah was revealed. Say, "Bring the Torah and read it, if you are truthful."
Alif Lam Mim.
And verily this community of yours is one community, and I am your Lord, so fear Me.
Whoever among you desires to go forward or lag behind.
Alif, Lam, Meem.
When Our messengers came to Lot, he was grieved on their account and felt powerless to protect them. They said, "Do not fear or grieve. We will save you and your family, except your wife who will remain behind."
The hinderer of good, transgressor, sinner.
We have already told you the stories of the ancients.
And landmarks; and by the stars they are guided.
Those who deny the Day of Judgment.
And it is He who feeds me and gives me to drink.
And it will be said to them, "Enter them in peace, secure."
And when you strike, you strike as tyrants.
He said, “Begone! It is not for you to be arrogant in the sky. Go away! You are one of the humiliated.”
In gardens, they will question one another.
Except the chosen servants of Allah.
This is the dispensation of Allah which has preceded from before, and you will not find in the dispensation of Allah any change.
There is indeed a sign in that, but most of them do not believe.
We shall take you to a place of hospitality.
You are the best Knower.
When it comes, no one will speak except by His leave. Some will be wretched, and others blessed.
This is for the poor immigrants who were expelled from their homes and their possessions, who seek bounty from Allah and [His] pleasure and support Allah and His Messenger. It is they who are the truthful.
It is He who sends down clear verses to His servant that He may bring you out from darkness into light. Indeed, Allah is most kind and merciful to you.
"As my Lord has forgiven me, and made me one of the honored."
And perfected is the word of your Lord in truth and justice. None can change His words. He is the All-hearing, the All-knowing.
Then We saved him and his family, all together.
On parchment unrolled.
I will show you my face. I will be with the Messenger and I am a messenger."
It will not be opened.
As for those among you who do not have the means to marry free believing women, let them marry those whom your right hands possess. Allah knows best about your faith. You are from one another. Marry them with the permission of their masters and give them their dowry according to what is acceptable, neither committing adultery nor taking paramours. But if they commit adultery, they will be liable to half the punishment of free women. This is for those among you who fear falling into adultery. But it is better for you to be patient. Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.
He has aided you with cattle and children.
So today no ransom will be taken from you, nor from those who disbelieved. Your refuge is the Fire. It is your companion, and evil is the resting place.
It is a place of rest,
It is on a deep, dark road.
And We have made for you therein means of living, and for those for whom you do not provide.
And they used to carve from the mountains, houses, feeling secure.
Unquestionably, it is here.
And say, "Praise be to Allah, who has not taken a son, and has no partner in sovereignty, and has no protector out of weakness." And magnify Him with great glorification.
That He may know that they have conveyed the messages of their Lord, and He comprehends all that is with them, and He keeps a count of all things.
It is not for them to send me back.
He created all things in pairs, and has provided you ships and cattle on which you ride.
A goodly scent.
Then thereafter there shall come a year wherein the people will be given rain and wherein they will press.
But whoever submits his face to Allah and does good, will have his reward with his Lord, and they will have nothing to fear nor to grieve.
And We had sent warners among them.
Those who are wretched will be in the Fire, sighing and groaning.
But in the few years since then he was sparingly mentioned.
And Moses chose seventy men from his people for Our appointment. When the earthquake seized them, he said, "My Lord, had You willed, You would have destroyed them and me before. Will You destroy us for what the fools among us have done? This is only Your trial. You lead astray whomever You will and guide whomever You will. You are our Protector. Forgive us and have mercy on us, for You are the best of forgivers."
Say, "Travel in the land and see how Allah originated creation. Then Allah will bring forth a later creation. Indeed, Allah is over all things competent."
Have you considered the fate of the people of Noah?
The officials of the city said, "The people of the city will not be affected by the destitution."
"Exalted is my wife and my son!"
In the heavens and the earth there are signs for the believers.
He had no authority over them, but that We might know those who doubt the Hereafter from those who believe in it. Your Lord is Guardian over all things.
The flight was postponed until the Day of Judgment. Did you make a decision?
Those who kill their children in foolishness without knowledge, and forbid what Allah has provided for them, fabricating lies against Allah, will surely be lost. They have gone astray and are not guided.
Then We sent Moses with Our signs to Pharaoh and his nobles, but they wrongfully rejected them. So observe how was the end of the corrupters.
This is a chapter which We have revealed and made obligatory, and We have revealed clear verses in it, so that you may take heed.
Yes indeed, why not?
And establish prayer and give zakah, and whatever good you send ahead for yourselves, you will find it with Allah. Indeed, Allah is Seeing of what you do.
He hideth himself from the people because of the evil of the tidings. Shall he keep it in humiliation, or bury it in the dust? Evil is their judgment!
They said, "Our Lord knows that we have been sent to you."
By the witness and the witnessed,
Those who do not have the power to do so do not know. Will He leave them alone for a few days?
They will remain in it forever. Indeed, with Allah is a great reward.
Turn to Him, and fear Him, and establish prayer, and do not be of the idolaters.
Forgiveness belongs to him, and gracious is He.
He said, "O Noah, disembark with peace from Us and blessings upon you and upon the nations that are with you. And nations whom We will let enjoy themselves for a while, then a painful punishment from Us will befall them."
To Him is your return, altogether. The promise of Allah is true. He originates creation, then He repeats it, so that He may reward those who believe and do righteous deeds with justice. As for those who disbelieve, they will drink boiling water and suffer a painful punishment for their disbelief.
And whenever they make a covenant, some of them cast it aside. But most of them do not believe.
And of the evidences of that, that the army came to the city, after the man who was killed of the People of the Right Hand.
And whenever I called them that You might forgive them, they thrust their fingers into their ears, wrapped themselves in their garments, persisted, and waxed very proud.
And my advice will not benefit you if I wish to advise you, if Allah desires to lead you astray. He is your Lord, and to Him you will be returned."
They will be rejoicing in what their Lord has given them. Before this, they were among the righteous.
Then upon Us rests their reckoning.
Indeed, I believe in you, so try [for yourself] within three days."
We provide for these and for those, a gift from your Lord, and the gift of your Lord is not restricted.
And his fruits were encompassed, and he began to grieve over what he had spent on it, and it lay fallen on its trellises, and he said, “If only I had not associated anyone with my Lord.”
Those who do not expect to meet Us say, "Why have angels not been sent down to us, or why do we not see our Lord?" They are arrogant within themselves and have transgressed all bounds.
They think the confederates have not departed, and if the confederates should come again, they would wish they were in the desert among the bedouins, asking news of you. And if they were among you, they would fight but little.
And when they repented and became regretful and saw that they had gone astray, they said, "If our Lord does not have mercy on us and forgive us, we will surely be among the losers."
We relate to you the true story of Moses and Pharaoh for those who believe.
Ask those of Our messengers whom We sent before you: Did We appoint gods to be worshipped besides the Beneficent Allah?
When she heard of their sly talk, she sent for them and prepared a banquet for them, and gave each one of them a knife, and said, “Joseph, come out before them.” When they saw him, they were amazed, and cut their hands, and said, “God preserve us! This is not a human! This is a noble angel.”
O you who believe! Do not kill game while you are in the state of ihram. And whoever among you kills it intentionally, then the compensation for it is the like of what he killed, from cattle, as judged by two just men among you, and it is to be delivered to the Ka'bah, or expiation for it is the feeding of the needy, or its equivalent in fasting, that he may taste the consequences of his deed. Allah has pardoned what is past; but whoever returns, Allah will take vengeance on him. Allah is Mighty, Able to Requite (the wrong).
Until, when Gog and Magog are let loose, and they rush from every mound.
On parchment unrolled.
We have gone away from you. What is the matter with you? Leave, then.
By no means!
And let him share my task,
And nothing prevented men from believing when guidance came to them except that they said, "Has Allah sent a human messenger?"
You must remember the life of this world.
A. L. R.
O mankind! We have created you from male and female, and made you into nations and tribes, so that you may know one another. Indeed, the noblest of you in the sight of Allah is the one who fears Allah most. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted.
And whoever repents after his crime and reforms, Allah will forgive him. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.
Allah has given you wives from among yourselves, and has given you sons and grandchildren from your wives, and has provided you with good things. Will they then believe in falsehood and deny Allah's favors?
And to Thamud, We sent their brother Saleh. He said, "O my people, worship Allah; you have no deity other than Him. A clear proof has come to you from your Lord. This she-camel of Allah is a proof for you. Leave her to graze on Allah's earth, and do not touch her with evil, lest a painful punishment should seize you."
"If I am left in the lurch, I will die."
Allah helped you at Badr, when you were weak. So fear Allah, that you may give thanks.
And when he attained his maturity and became mature, We gave him wisdom and knowledge. Thus We reward the righteous.
And the Face of your Lord will remain forever, full of Majesty and Splendor.
Whoever thinks that Allah will not help him in this world and the Hereafter, let him stretch a rope to the heavens and sever it. Then let him see whether his strategy will remove what enrages him.
He was only two arms' length, or even nearer.
In a lofty garden,
When they made a covenant, some of them cast it aside. Most of them do not believe.
And your Lord comes, and the angels, rank on rank,
In the deep pit of error.
The one who was in the seventies asked, "Who knows the movements of the planets?"
I do not fear that I will be cast into the prison."
Every one knows that it is He who is the Strong, the All-knowing.
"Certainly, you are one of the Envoys.
What, do you know?
He gives to the city and to the town thirty-nine per year, but only a few of it are spent.
We sent Our messengers with clear proofs, and sent down with them the Book and the Balance, so that people may maintain justice. We sent down iron, in which there is great might and many benefits for people, so that Allah may know who helps Him and His messengers in the Unseen. Indeed Allah is all-strong, all-mighty.
And made them virgins,
The people of the Book were granted permission to create.
The sealing of the keys.
"Allah is my Lord and your Lord, so worship Him. This is the Straight Path."
I do not desire any harm from you. Ask me and I will answer you."
But if he turns away, and says, "Do this,"
They believe in Allah and the Last Day, and they enjoin what is right and forbid what is wrong, and they hasten to good deeds. And they are among the righteous.
On parchment unrolled.
They denied all Our signs, so We seized them with the seizing of the Mighty, Powerful.
No! Indeed, yes!
Does not man remember that We created him before, when he was nothing?
So fear Allah and obey me.
"Allah is my Lord and your Lord, so worship Him. This is a straight path."
He said, "Have you come to turn us out of our land with your magic, Moses?"
On the Day when it comes, no soul will speak except by His leave, and some of them will be wretched and others blessed.
"Take your precautions, then come forward in detachment. Whoever gains the upper hand today will surely triumph."
No! Indeed, yes!
If We willed, We could send a warner to every town.
We turn away their hearts and their sights, even as they did not believe in it the first time, and We leave them to wander blindly in their transgression.
Or have they associates who have made lawful for them what Allah has not permitted? And had it not been for a decisive word, it would have been judged between them. And indeed, the wrongdoers will have a painful punishment.
Rezaul is an example. How should they use the social media to refute their accusations?
Then Adam received words from his Lord, and He forgave him. Indeed, He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.
On parchment unrolled.
A description of Ishmael, the son of Isaac.
They will come out of their graves with downcast eyes, as if they were scattered locusts.
The Ark is an ancient wooden box.
We have put shackles around their necks, which are up to their chins, so they cannot bend their heads.
And do not make your oaths a means of deceit, lest the foot should slip after being firmly planted, and you should taste the severity of a punishment for having hindered others from the way of Allah, and you should have a great punishment.
On parchment unrolled.
Glory be to Him! High be He exalted above what they say!
It will soon come to pass.
On parchment unrolled.
On parchment unrolled.
And if you ask them who created them, they will surely say, Allah. Whence are they then turned away?
That is because you used to exult in the land without right, and because you used to boast.
Do you fear to be alone?
O you who believe! Do not take those who make your religion a mockery and fun among the People of the Book and the disbelievers, and be careful of (your duty to) Allah if you are believers.
Woe to you!
And were you witnesses when death approached Ya'qub? He said to his sons, "What will you worship after me?" They said, "We will worship your God and the God of your fathers, Ibrahim and Ismail and Ishaq, and we will submit to Him."
But why was he not given this? The record of the deeds of the pious is in his humble book.
Those who are below the Throne.
Aye! it is the truth.
The whole world, and the whole of the Children of Israel, was destroyed by the slander of the unbelievers in the midst of the shooting of the youths at the foot of the Sacred Mosque in the city of al-Zaqqum, was destroyed. The entire world was destroyed by the slander of the unbelievers in the midst of the shooting of the youths at al-Zaqqum, and the entire nation was destroyed by the same slander.
Their intention was to harm him.
Indeed, it is a certainty.
The aforementioned poet,
Their eyes will be lowered, disgrace will cover them. This is the Day which they were promised.
And they say, "Why has no sign been sent down to him from his Lord?" Say, "Indeed, Allah is able to send down a sign, but most of them do not know."
Then the record of the call will be placed, and they will be asked, "Do you forgive us?"
And if We give him a taste of favor after hardship has visited him, he will surely say, "The evils have gone away from me." Indeed, he is a boastful [person].
Ha, Ha, Meem.
Do you think that you will be able to cause corruption in the land and sever your ties with your kinsmen?
We had sent warners among them.
So they departed. When they boarded the ship, he made a hole in it. He said, "Have you made a hole in it to drown its passengers? You have done a strange thing."
My burden is light.
When he was prevented, he cast a scream on the door, producing two thousand cubits of ice.
And he inspected the birds, and said, “Why do I not see the hoopoe? Or is he absent?”
It will not cause them any harm, nor will it cause them to go astray.
"Have we not been saved,
Why was it not done in the first nine months of the year?
And in the midst of water-springs.
The army will be defeated, and they will turn their backs.
And remember Isma'il (Ishmael), Idris (Enoch) and Dhul-Kifl (Isaiah), all were patient.
Your Lord knows what they conceal and what they reveal.
They will enter the prisons in the dark. A man who used to listen to the eastern talk has told me that
The exalted assembly.
On parchment unrolled.
He said, "Indeed, you and your fathers were in clear error."
He said, "My Lord, how can I have a son when my wife is barren and I have reached the extreme old age?"
Those who swear not to touch their wives should wait four months. But if they repent, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.
And We sent into the house a wise man so that he might make clear to them the blood.
Who is the author of the Clatterer?
On parchment unrolled.
On parchment unrolled.
Noble Messengers will not be able to help them.
And We seized them with punishment, but they did not humble themselves before Allah, nor do they entreat [Him].
So leave them until they encounter the day when they will be thunderstruck,
Among them are those who listen to you. But can you make the deaf hear, even though they do not understand?
He said, "I am the messenger of your Lord, so that I may give you a pure son."
The scribes write down what they used to do in the battle of Badr.
He will say, ‘This is what you were promised, for every penitent and heedful [servant]
I would have died there, as soon as I reach home.
Whether We show you something of what We have promised them, or call you to Us before it, your duty is to convey the message, and it is for Us to take account.
Who does greater wrong than he who invents a lie about Allah or rejects His signs? Indeed, the wrongdoers will not succeed.
Why have bracelets of gold not been given to him, or angels not accompanied him?"
The chief of the two angels, who were entrusted with the security of the city, said, "They will be pleased with the result of their agreement."
And the prophet said to them, "Allah has raised Saul to be king over you." They said, "How can he have kingship over us when we are more worthy of kingship than he, and he has no wealth?" He said, "Allah has chosen him over you, and has increased him abundantly in knowledge and stature." And Allah grants sovereignty to whom He wills. And Allah is All-Embracing, All-Knowing.
Indeed, it is better.
Who knows if we are to be recalled?
We are responsible for its collection and its recitation.
O you who believe! Do not take those who take your religion for a mockery and sport, and those who were given the Scripture before you, and the disbelievers, as allies. And fear Allah, if you are believers.
They think that he is the best.
And share my task,
And We caused a tree of gourd to grow over him.
O People given the Book(s)! Believe in what We have sent down, confirming what is with you, before We obliterate faces and turn them towards their backs, or curse them as We cursed the Sabbath-breakers, and Allah’s command is bound to be fulfilled.
Say, "Have you considered? If Allah were to make the night perpetual over you until the Day of Resurrection, who is the god besides Allah who could bring you light? Will you not listen?"
When he said to his father and his people, "What are these statues to which you are devoted?"
I do not believe in what you say.
This is a reminder, so whoever wills, let him take a path to his Lord.
On parchment unrolled.
They will not wear their finery, but they will earn good deeds.
He was created from gushing water.
Is he who founded his building on piety to Allah and His good pleasure better, or he who founded his building on the brink of a crumbling bank, so it collapsed with him into the Fire of Hell? Allah does not guide the wrongdoing people.
The righteous will drink from a cup mixed with water.
Woe to them!
Abiding in the midst of the land, his parents were poor.
The people of the city are in despair.
And when Allah took a covenant from those who were given the Scripture: You will surely make it clear to the people and you will not hide it. But they cast it behind their backs and bartered it for a small price. Evil indeed is that which they barter.
And you will see every nation fallen on their knees. Every nation will be summoned to its book. Today you will be recompensed for what you used to do.
Is it possible for you to call a wise doctor?
The people of the right hand.
We have explained it to them so that they may take heed, but most people refuse all except disbelief.
And your Lord said, "Pray to Me, and I will respond to you. Indeed, those who disdain My worship will enter Hell, disgraced."
But you are neglectful of him.
I will punish him severely or slay him unless he gives me a valid excuse."
What is it that you are doing? It is You who gives us the tree of patience and constancy.
I am sending you by way of revelation.
If We had desired to take a pastime, We would have taken it from Our presence, if We were going to do so.
No! Indeed, yes!
And when you strike, you strike like tyrants.
My father,
Say, "O Jews, if you claim that you are Allah's favourites to the exclusion of mankind, then wish for death if you are truthful."
When the sight is dazed,
He it is Who has sent His Messenger with guidance and the religion of truth, that He may make it prevail over all religions. Allah suffices as a witness.
I had asked him for advice.
Indeed, man is without power.
Whoever submits his face to Allah, being righteous, will be rewarded by his Lord. There will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve.
But they planned and Allah planned, and Allah is the best of planners.
On parchment unrolled.
If they could find a refuge, or caves, or a place to creep into, they would turn to it quickly.
Except the people of the right hand.
Ha Mim.
He said, "I will marry one of these two daughters of mine to you on condition that you serve me for eight years. But if you complete ten, it will be of your own free will. I do not want to be hard on you. You will find me, God willing, among the righteous."
The believers have indeed succeeded,
Ha. Mim.
I am seeing you wherever you are."
And those who, when they commit an indecency or wrong themselves remember Allah and ask forgiveness of their sins, and who forgives sins except Allah, and do not persist in what they do while they know.
I am naught but a man of hard work.
Why were there not among the generations before you, men of righteousness who would forbid corruption in the land, except a few of those whom We saved from them? But the wrongdoers pursued what they were given abundantly, and they were guilty.
I do not worship what you worship.
On that Day, it will declare its news.
Fighting has ended, so raise your cups.
A fine course, let them play.
They were on the right path.
And the Mount Sinai,
And ask forgiveness of your Lord and repent to Him. He will provide you with a good provision until a stated term, and He will bestow His grace on every possessor of virtue. But if you turn away, then I fear for you the punishment of a terrible day.
It is nothing but a revelation revealed.
All travellers are forbidden in the land, and Our deputed angels have forbidden you.
They will not be able to frustrate it.
Then I seized those who disbelieved. So how terrible was My punishment!
No! It is the truth.
And landmarks; and by the stars they are guided.
"I want my own home."
They know only the outward appearance of the life of this world, and they are unaware of the Hereafter.
On parchment unrolled.
It should be an increase for him.
Have you not seen those who were told, "Restrain your hands, perform the prayer, and pay the alms?" But when fighting was prescribed for them, there is a party of them fearing people as they fear Allah, or with greater fear, and they say, "Our Lord, why have You prescribed fighting for us? Would that You had let us enjoy for a short while!" Say, "The enjoyment of this world is short, but the Hereafter is better for the righteous, and you will not be wronged even to the extent of a thread [inside a date seed]."
The horses which were borne by the two horses in pairs.
Proceed, then.
Your Lord is Self-sufficient and full of mercy. If He wills, He can do away with you and make whomever He wills successors after you, just as He produced you from the descendants of other people.
On that Day they will submit to Allah, and what they used to invent will forsake them.
He said, "This land is forbidden for them for forty years, while they wander about in the land. Do not grieve over the transgressing people."
He thought that he would never return.
(Muhammad), tell them, "Make a copy of what you want to change.
Or is theirs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and all that is between them? Then let them ascend the cords!
And they say, "These are fables of the ancients which he has written down, and they are dictated to him morning and evening."
I have said to you publicly that you think that you will be resurrected.
You will see the wrongdoers fearful of what they have earned, and it will befall them. But those who believe and do righteous deeds will be in the meadows of the Gardens, and they will have whatever they wish from their Lord. That is the great bounty.
Man has spoken aloud in public.
No! He is the best of all.
I swear by the Lord of the Easts and the Wests that We have the power to do so.
And of the cattle He has created some for burden and some for food. Eat of what Allah has provided for you, and do not follow the footsteps of the devil. He is a clear enemy to you.
As if it were a child's play.
so that you may travel its spacious roads."
He will say, “Slink away in it, and do not speak.”
The story of Ollie.
You marvel, while they scoff at it.
As for those who believe and do righteous deeds, for them is forgiveness and a generous provision.
O dear Prophet (Mohammed – peace and blessings be upon him), is it you who will be the successful, or the loving?
Have you seen him who disbelieves in Our signs and says, "I will certainly be given wealth and children?"
And I will guide you to your Lord, and you will fear Him."
They think only of wealth.
They seek a way out,
And those spreading [the clouds].
As a rebellious person.
And what will explain to you what the ascent is?
They denied the truth when it came to them, but soon the news of what they used to ridicule will come to them.
Men are the protectors and maintainers of women, because Allah has made some of them excel others, and because they spend out of their wealth. So righteous women are obedient and guard in the husband's absence what Allah would have them guard. As for those women from whom you fear rebellion, admonish them, and detain them in beds, and beat them. But if they obey you, do not seek a way against them. Indeed Allah is all-high, all-great.
They have no knowledge of it. They only follow conjecture, and conjecture does not help against the truth.
The constellations of Sijjin.
The good deed and the evil deed are not equal. Repel evil with what is better, and your enemy will become your intimate friend.
Whether you speak aloud or in a low voice,
Indeed, I am here.
Whoever enters the Great Fire.
So proceed, for you are rightly guided.
You approach men lustfully instead of women. Indeed, you are transgressors."
He said, "Have you seen what you have been worshipping,
If you look carefully, you will see that the two sides of the earth are like tufts of carded wool.
The wizards will say, "Begone wherever you are".
What is that?
And they do not know it, so they follow conjecture, and conjecture does not avail against the truth.
A scorching wind struck the mountain.
Surely, in this there is a reminder for whoever has a heart or listens attentively.
The sealing of the keys.
And carry your heads, and be patient, and vie with each other in patience.
Your Lord eases or restricts the sustenance of whomever He wants. He is fully aware and fully observant of His servants.
And verily, the Judgment will surely befall!
O you who believe! If an evildoer brings you a piece of news, verify it, lest you harm people out of ignorance, and then become regretful for what you did.
No! Indeed, yes!
A. L. R.
Alif. Lam. Mim. Ra'. This is the name of a family.
Allah has made the Ka'bah, the Sacred House, a means of support for mankind, and the Sacred Month, and the offerings, and the garlands, so that you may know that Allah knows what is in the heavens and what is in the earth, and that Allah has knowledge of all things.
Say, "He will revive them who created them the first time. He has knowledge of every creation."
YaSeen.
Or have We given them a Book before this, to which they are holding fast?
We have been attacked, and you must come out of here."
O you who believe! Do not be like those who disbelieve and say of their brethren when they travel in the land or go out to fight, "If they had stayed with us, they would not have died or been killed." This is in order that Allah may cause regret in their hearts. And Allah gives life and causes death, and Allah sees what you do.
And they will have no intercessors among their partners, and they will disbelieve in their partners.
O you who believe! Allah is your ally, and His Messenger, and those who believe and establish prayer and give zakah.
And do not leave.
He said, "My Lord, help me against the people of corruption."
Rizvi, on that day, was among the victorious.
Wherever you are, death will overtake you, even if you are in strong fortresses. If good comes to them, they say, "This is from God," but if evil befalls them, they say, "This is from you." Say, "Everything is from God." What is wrong with them that they fail to understand anything?
He did not believe in Allah, the Great.
And you will come to know it after a while.
The Executor of the Call.
On parchment unrolled.
The Day of Judgment
Nay, the Hour is their appointed time, and the Hour will be most grievous and most bitter.
And by oath of those that spread out.
On parchment unrolled.
Whenever they try to escape from it, they will be returned to it, and it will be said to them, "Taste the punishment of the Burning Fire!"
So we desired that their Lord should give them in exchange one better than him in character and nearer to mercy.
You will find him in the cradle. This is the right path for him.
Ha. Mim.
And your religion is one religion, and I am your Lord, so fear Me.
And whenever a surah is revealed enjoining, "Believe in Allah and fight along with His Messenger," the affluent among them ask leave of you and say, "Leave us and we will be with those who will stay behind."
O you who believe! Allah will surely test you with something of the game which your hands and lances can reach, so that Allah may know who fears Him in secret. So whoever transgresses after that, there is a painful punishment for him.
Know that Allah gives life to the earth after its death. We have made the signs clear for you, so that you may understand.
He will have no power, and no helper.
The fools among the people will say, "Why did the believers turn away from the direction they were facing?" Say, "To Allah belong the East and the West. He guides whom He wills to the right path."
And they say, "This is nothing but clear magic."
And guard them against evil deeds. Whomsoever You guard against evil deeds on that Day, You have had mercy upon him, and that is the mighty triumph.
But when Our clear signs came to them, they said, "This is plain magic."
He said, “You are granted respite.”
That is how We recompensed them for their ingratitude, and We do not recompense except the ungrateful.
On parchment unrolled.
So that the People of the Book may know that they do not control aught of the bounty of Allah, and that bounty is in Allah's hand, He gives it to whom He pleases, and Allah is the possessor of great bounty.
Who created me, and He guides me.
What is the matter with you that you do not believe in Allah, and the Messenger invites you to believe in your Lord, and has made a covenant with you, if you are believers?
Those who have been given knowledge know that what has been revealed to you from your Lord is the truth and guides to the path of the Majestic and Praiseworthy.
Their prophet said to them, "God has raised Saul to be king over you." They said, "How can he have kingship over us when we deserve more kingship than he, and he has not been given abundant wealth?" He said, "God has chosen him over you, and has increased him abundantly in knowledge and stature." God gives His kingship to whomever He wants. God is All-embracing and All-knowing.
And among them are those who say, "Our Lord, give us good in this world and good in the Hereafter, and protect us from the punishment of the Fire."
Alif Lam Mim.
So Allah will protect them from the evil of that Day, and will bring them radiance and joy.
But you turn away from him.
Now he is hidden.
"I have rewarded them today for their patience and patience, and they are indeed the winners."
But they all believed in him, so the punishment will befall them for what they did.
Say, "On the Day of Judgment, the faith of those who disbelieve will not benefit them, and they will not be given respite."
On parchment unrolled.
We have presented for the people in this Qur'an all kinds of examples. But if you bring them a sign, those who disbelieve will say, "You are liars."
And when it is said to them, "Prostrate to the Most Merciful," they say, "And what is the Most Merciful? Shall we prostrate to whatever you command us?" And it increases their aversion.
Then, out of it, you will go down.
This is boiling water and pus, so taste it.
Their feuding in the midst of the enemy and the enemy is almost over. Their voices are heard nearby and far.
They said, "These are confused dreams, and we do not know the interpretation of dreams."
Abiding in the midst of the land, his parents were poor.
Or like a cloudburst from the sky, wherein is darkness and thunder and lightning; they put their fingers in their ears against the thunderclaps, fearing death, and Allah encompasses the disbelievers.
Ya Sin.
None of you loves the tribe of Tris.
“You will help me, and I do not see any supporters.”
The name of action.
"Send the Children of Israel with us."
That is because Allah,
Do you feel secure?
The Companions of the Right, what are the Companions of the Right?
Like those before them, they tasted the evil result of their conduct, and they will have a painful punishment.
The people of Ad rejected the messengers.
"Kill Joseph or cast him away into some unknown land, so that your father's attention may be exclusively for you, and after that you may become righteous people."
And Allah has made the earth a spread for you.
Have you seen the one who turned away?
Woe to me for having failed to find the way to the Truth!
Aad, the son of Ya'ayb.
I was not created like the rest of the people of the desert.
And they will not taste death therein except the first death, and He will protect them from the punishment of the Fire.
On parchment unrolled.
On parchment unrolled.
But they marveled that a warner from among themselves has come to them, and the unbelievers say, "This is a strange thing.
The people of the city said, "This man is a murderer."
They have not given them any guidance.
"None of you will speak to me. This is an unbelieving man."
Do you want to kill him?
On parchment unrolled.
The companions of Paradise, that Day, will have a better abode and place of rest.
He makes them promises and shows them the gardens. But Satan's promises are nothing but deceit.
And when Our command came and the oven gushed forth, We said, "Board into the ship a pair of every kind, and your family except those against whom the word has already been spoken, and those who believe." But only a few believed with him.
And he returns to his questioning.
On parchment unrolled.
This is a mixed war.
"Will you follow him or take a turn in his place?"
It is He who created man from water, then He made relationships and marriages. Your Lord is All-powerful.
As for those who reject Our signs, We will gradually lead them on from where they do not know.
That He may make the interjections of the devil a trial for those in whose hearts is a disease and those whose hearts are hardened. Indeed, the wrongdoers are in great opposition.
Do you think that you will be left alone while Allah has not yet made evident those among you who struggled and did not take anyone as a friend except Allah and His Apostle and the faithful? Allah is fully aware of what you do.
You will not leave them alone.
It is an excellent addition.
Say, "He is anxious about the home."
This is one of the ten names mentioned to Us.
And warn them, [O Muhammad], of the Day when the matter will be decided and there will be no escape.
And they say, "When will this victory come, if you should be truthful?"
Indeed, I was fearful.
The human being is created from outside.
And certainly Joseph came to you with clear proofs before, but you remained in doubt concerning what he came to you with, until when he died, you said, "Allah will never send a messenger after him." Thus does Allah leave astray the transgressor and doubter.
He has entrusted me with authority.
Their father was a man of labour who saved them from hardship in the land. Their story has been spread far and wide.
They said, "We will see whether you are truthful or a liar.
And on the fifth day he came and asked for money. Then he came again and asked again. I gave him money every time, and I gave him again and again. And on the fifth day I seized his chest and sealed his heart.
That Allah may distinguish the wicked from the good, and put the wicked together, and pile them up, and cast them into Hell. It is they who are the losers.
"O Benito (Noah)!
Say, "Believe in it or do not believe. Indeed, those who were given knowledge before it, when it is recited to them, fall down on their faces in prostration."
"Alas for me! I was indeed insane!
Like those before you, they were stronger than you in power, and more abundant in wealth and children. They enjoyed their share of this world, and you enjoy your share as those before you enjoyed their share, and you indulge in falsehood as they did. Their works have failed in this world and the Hereafter, and they are the losers.
The believers should not take the disbelievers as allies instead of the believers. Whoever does that has nothing to do with Allah, except if you fear them. Allah warns you to be cautious of Him, and to Allah is the return.
Whether he be in any form or in any region, he will have a good impression in the world.
I am able to do that.
They said, "Shall we believe in two mortals like ourselves, while their people are our slaves?"
They have no knowledge of it. They only follow conjecture, and conjecture does not help against the truth.
O mankind! We have created you from male and female, and made you into nations and tribes, so that you may know one another. Indeed, the noblest of you in the sight of Allah is the one who fears Allah most. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted.
Let not the believers take the disbelievers for their allies in preference to the believers. Whoever does that has nothing to do with God, unless it is to protect himself from them. God warns you to beware of Him. To God is the destiny.
They will be given preference over the others on the Day of Judgment.
I am better than you.
And if the disbelievers had all that is in the earth and the like of it with it, and they offered it to ransom themselves from the punishment of the Day of Resurrection, it would not be accepted from them. For them is a painful punishment.
It is not their flesh or blood that reaches Allah, but it is piety from you that reaches Him. So He has subjected them to you, that you may glorify Allah for guiding you. And give glad tidings to the doers of good.
You will surely be tested in your possessions and in yourselves, and you will surely hear much evil from those who were given the Scripture before you, and from those who associate others with Allah. But if you are patient and guard (against evil), then surely, this is a matter of true determination.
This is a reminder. So whoever wills, let him take a path to his Lord.
Yes indeed, why not?
She is of a noble family.
Verily, this Qur'an explains to the Children of Israel most of the matters in which they differ.
This is an account of the mercy of your Lord to Zachariah.
Or do they intend a conspiracy? But those who disbelieve are themselves in a conspiracy.
And gives a little and is grudging?
He knows what is before them and what is behind them, and to Allah all matters are returned.
A. L. HA.
When that Day arrives, no soul will speak except by Allah's leave. Some will be wretched, and others blessed.
He threw down a heap of thorns and meteors.
It is forbidden for you only carrion, blood, the flesh of swine, and that over which is invoked the name of other than Allah. But if anyone is forced by necessity, without wilful disobedience, nor transgressing due limits, then surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
And for him who fears the standing before his Lord, there will be two gardens.
"It may be that our Lord will give us better than this, for we turn to our Lord in repentance."
On parchment unrolled.
And raised high your esteem?
And when you attack, you attack like tyrants.
He will record everything for Us. His shirt will be in the shape of a star.
Your Lord is Self-sufficient and Merciful. If He wills, He can put you away, and replace you by whomever He wills, just as He produced you from the descendants of others.
Except by way of annoyance.
What do you know? Perhaps he wants to be purified.
Kaf. Ha. Mim.
Say, "Who is the Lord of the heavens and the earth?" Say, "Allah." Say, "Have you taken protectors other than Him, who have no power to benefit or harm themselves?" Say, "Are the blind and the seeing equal? Are darkness and light equal? Or have they associated with Allah partners who created like His creation, so that the creation seemed to them confusable?" Say, "Allah is the Creator of all things. He is the One, the All-paramount."
Except those who do wrong, then do good after evil, and I am Forgiving and Merciful.
And those who fear the punishment of their Lord.
"Eat and drink with pleasure."
On parchment unrolled.
And put them in the guarded repository.
Indeed, we are enraged, but we do not believe in jihad and the return [of captives]. Indeed, Islam is a security and a way of affection.
Who cause corruption in the land and do not set things right."
Go, you two!
Indeed, to your Lord is the return.
He said, "Would that I had power over you, or could take refuge in a strong support."
Leave them to eat and enjoy, and let their hopes deceive them. They will come to know.
And they say, "When will this promise occur, if you should be truthful?"
And when We said, "Indeed, your Lord is with mankind." And what We have shown you of the vision is but a trial for mankind, as is the accursed tree in the Qur'an. And We warn them, but it increases them only in transgression.
"Now," he said, "you have disobeyed and been among the corrupt."
You will not be able to enter the city in the morning.
And those who strive against Our signs, for them is a painful punishment.
They say, "We feed you only for the sake of Allah. We do not ask you for reward or thanks."
Now I am overtaken by a thunderbolt.
How can they give you a sealed throne?
I am more desirous of him than he.
They do not worship one whose harm is nearer than his benefit. What an evil protector and what an evil friend!
That is because those who disbelieve follow falsehood and those who believe follow the truth from their Lord. That is how Allah draws comparisons for mankind.
Those who do wrong will have a share in the punishment like the share of their predecessors, so let them not ask Me to hasten it.
That is because those who disbelieve follow falsehood, and those who believe follow the truth from their Lord. Thus does Allah set forth for men their examples.
He said, "And who despairs of the mercy of his Lord except those who are astray?"
And those who glide with ease.
And advance, and advance.
He thought that he would never return.
And they say, "When will this promise be fulfilled, if you should be truthful?"
The future is dark and forbidden in the past.
And you cannot escape from Allah in the earth, and you have no protector or helper besides Him.
But why was he not given this? The record of the deeds of the pious is in his humble book.
Except the people of Aykah.
I will bring you the Spectacle.
Ha, Ya, Ha, Ya, Ha.
And by oath of the swelling sea.
He possessed great strength, and he appeared before the people of the right hand.
So he showed him the Great Sign.
The record of good deeds is kept ready and easy to memorize.
He will say, "By Allah, you almost ruined me."
That you may believe in Allah and His Messenger, and revere him, and may glorify Him morning and evening.
And the Muslims, after the coming of Islam, are only twenty of the believers, and in the land, 97 of them are Muslims.
On parchment unrolled.
'Ayn, Ha'.
And if the right is on their side, they come to him willingly.
Glory be to Him who created all kinds of things from the earth, from themselves, and from what they do not know.
The righteous will drink from a cup mixed with Kafur.
It was said, "O Noah, disembark with peace from Us and blessings upon you and upon the people who are with you. And there will be other people to whom We will grant enjoyment, but then a painful punishment from Us will befall them."
In the midst of the land and the sea.
Glory be to your Lord, the Lord of Might, above what they attribute to Him!
And glorify Him morning and evening.
No indeed!
When Allah showed them to you as few in your dream, and if He had shown them to you as many, you would have lost heart and would have quarrelled among yourselves. But Allah saved you. He knows what is in the hearts.
The believers are those whose hearts tremble when Allah is mentioned, and when His verses are recited to them, it increases them in faith, and they put their trust in their Lord.
Then he turned to his family and brought a fat calf.
The record of good and evil is in a well-guarded tablet.
On parchment unrolled.
On parchment unrolled.
There will be many rallies.
We shaded you with clouds and sent down to you manna and quails, saying, "Eat of the good things We have provided for you." They did not wrong Us, but they wronged themselves.
They are the descendants of one another. Allah is All-Hearing, All-Knowing.
And Lot, when he said to his people, "Do you commit such indecency as no one in the world has committed before you?
You will be submissive.
"This day, I and those who work with me from the outside, make a covenant with each other, and we will continue to work for the youths of the land.
Or a treasure should have been given to him, or he should have had a garden from which to eat." But the wrongdoers say, "You follow only a man affected by magic."
"Call Me, and I will respond to you."
Shall I inform you upon whom the devils descend?
Is he who is a believer like him who is a transgressor? They are not equal.
It is only a revelation revealed to him.
Your Lord knows what their hearts conceal and what they reveal.
It will have everlasting daughters.
[It is] the [process of] splitting.
There is nothing you can do besides this.
This is what you were promised, for every penitent and devout.
They said, "Such is the command of your Lord. He is the Wise, the Knowing."
We shall be the friends of the Hereafter."
If the enemy had entered the city from its outlying parts and they had been called to sedition, they would have committed it, and they would not have been allowed to make amends.
Those who do not believe in it seek to hasten it, but those who believe in it fear it, and know it to be the truth. Those who doubt the Hour are in extreme error.
O mankind! You are the poor in the sight of Allah, and Allah is the All-sufficient, the All-laudable.
You did not say to the devil, "Tell us".
They worked for him whatsoever he pleased of buildings, statues, basins like reservoirs, and cauldrons firmly fixed. Work ye, house of Da'ud! with thanksgiving; few of My bondmen are grateful.
Inscribed in the Scrolls.
Ar-Ra.
So we turn away.
The nearest people to Abraham are those who followed him, and this Prophet, and those who believe. Allah is the guardian of the believers.
Then their return will be to Hell.
So stop,
And the mountains, how they were fixed?
For the building of a barrier.
No! I swear by the Day of Resurrection.
And the moon is eclipsed.
Except for a strong announcement.
You will have whatever you want.
On parchment unrolled.
He created the heavens and the earth in truth. He is exalted far above what they associate with Him.
And what is the matter with you that you should not eat of that over which Allah's name has been mentioned, and He has made clear to you what He has forbidden to you except what you are compelled to? And indeed many lead astray by their desires without knowledge. Indeed, your Lord is most knowing of the transgressors.
There is no blame on the blind, nor any blame on the lame, nor any blame on the sick, nor on yourselves if you eat from your houses, or your fathers' houses, or your mothers' houses, or your brothers' houses, or your sisters' houses, or the houses of your paternal uncles, or the houses of your paternal aunts, or the houses of your maternal uncles, or the houses of your maternal aunts, or those whose keys are in your possession, or the houses of your friends. There is no blame on you whether you eat together or separately. But when you enter houses, greet one another with a greeting from Allah, blessed and good. Thus Allah makes His signs clear to you, so that you may understand.
My people! Who will help me against Allah if I drive them away? Will you not take heed?
I am seeking my means.
Alif, Lam, Meem.
Then he was within two bows' length or even nearer.
And how can you patiently bear with something you do not comprehend?
Indeed, you are the RIDDKY.
Enter My Paradise.
O you who believe! Do not violate the sanctity of Allah’s name, the Sacred Month, the offering, the garlanded, the pilgrims, and those who seek bounty from their Lord and pleasure. When you are free from the obligations of ihram, you may hunt. Do not let the hatred of people who barred you from the Sacred Mosque lead you to transgress. Help one another in virtue and piety, do not help one another in sin and transgression. Fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is severe in punishment.
I do not like those who climb the height of thirty thousand feet.
And indeed, it is a reminder for the Godwary.
The dwellers in the wood denied the messengers.
But as for his family,
You know that this is not a prison.
And say, "Indeed, I am the clear warner."
And do you know of any of the Prophets among the Arabs?
And indeed, this nation of yours is one nation, and I am your Lord, so fear Me."
And on the day when He will resurrect them, as if they had not stayed on earth except for an hour of the day, they will recognize one another. Those who denied the meeting with Allah and were not guided will be lost.
Alif Lam Ra. A Book We have revealed to you, that you may bring forth mankind from darkness into light by the leave of their Lord, to the path of the Mighty, the Owner of Praise.
You and the unbelievers?
They will not taste death therein except the first death, and Allah will give them from His bounty.
No! I will not give it to you; this is for me.
If you are cast into it, you will have enough time to spare."
The creation of you all and the resurrection of you all are only as the creation of a single soul. Indeed, Allah is Hearing and Seeing.
I do not need to swear by the reproachful soul.
To the orphan near of kin.
And abundant fruits.
And We have made for you therein means of living, and for those for whom you do not provide.
So proceed, for you are rightly guided.
It is like a fearful dream.
And if they turn away, then say, "I warn you of a punishment like the punishment of 'Aad and Thamud."
He will be victorious.
We have searched for them among the ships.
The repentance of Allah is only for those who do wrong in ignorance and then repent quickly. Allah will turn to them in forgiveness, and Allah is all-knowing, all-wise.
We had no power over you. You were a rebellious people.
The shining flame.
I know that.
Who has fed them against hunger and secured them from fear.
They were the first to consume their food in the life of the Pharaoh. They used to consume the sweetest milk and the finest oil for their food.
He said, "My Lord, judge with truth. Our Lord is the Beneficent One whose help is sought against what you describe."
And you, [O Muhammad], by oath of certainty.
There were various views on the matter.
Their resentment will be ignored.
Alas! They do not do.
Say, "Nothing will happen to us except what Allah has decreed for us. He is our protector." And upon Allah let the believers rely.
Do you feel remorseful?
By the Hand of Lut.
And this is the favor you bestow upon me, that you have enslaved the Children of Israel."
O Children of Israel! Remember My favor which I bestowed upon you, and that I preferred you over the worlds.
Ha. Mim.
The Originator of the heavens and the earth. When He decrees a matter, He only says to it, "Be," and it is.
And We caused the earth to gush forth with springs, and the waters met for a matter predestined.
Were it so, We would have made you taste double punishment in this life and double punishment after death, and then you would have found no helper against Us.
But when We removed the punishment from them, they turned away.
And they say, "Why have not signs been sent down to him from his Lord?" Say, "The signs are only with Allah. I am only a clear warner."
Those who fulfil their covenant with Allah and do not break their covenant.
Is he then who is upon a clear proof from his Lord, and a witness from Him has come to testify to it, and before it was the Book of Moses as a guide and a mercy? Those who disbelieve in it from all the parties will be promised the Fire. So be not in doubt concerning it. Indeed, it is the truth from your Lord, but most people do not believe.
He said, “Do not fear; I am with you, and I hear and I see.
And that he speaks to you is pleasing.
But as for me, Allah is my Lord, and I do not associate anyone with my Lord."
Assuredly, it is the truth.
And your Lord will come with the angels, rank on rank.
Whoever enters into it or leaves it alone.
He said, "Son of my mother, do not seize me by my beard or my head. I feared that you would say, 'You have caused division among the Children of Israel, and did not observe my word.' "
And He sent against them birds in flocks.
He is indeed an insolent one.
To Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and all that is between them, and He has power over all things.
Surely, Mus'il (Solomon) and the chieftain of the brethren,
Their prophet said to them, "God has raised Saul to be king over you." They said, "How can he have kingship over us when we deserve more kingship than he, and he has not been given abundant wealth?" He said, "God has chosen him over you, and has increased him abundantly in knowledge and stature." God gives His kingship to whomever He wants. God is All-embracing and All-knowing.
And lower your voice and be clear,
Are they waiting for aught but the Messiah's kingdom? So what can they expect?
